The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Pansy Magazine, November 1887, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Pansy Magazine, November 1887

Author: Various

Editor: Pansy
        Mrs. G. R. Alden

Release Date: August 28, 2016 [EBook #52909]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PANSY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER 1887 ***




Produced by Emmy, Juliet Sutherland and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






[Transcriber's Note: Bold text is surrounded by =equal signs= and italic
text is surrounded by _underscores_.]



    $1.00 a Year.      NOVEMBER, 1887.      10 cts. a No.

    THE PANSY

    EDITED
    BY
    “PANSY”
    MRS. G. R. ALDEN.


    D. LOTHROP COMPANY
    BOSTON, MASS. U.S.A.

    Copyright, 1887, by D. LOTHROP COMPANY. Published monthly.
    Entered at the P. O. at Boston as second class matter.

EPPS’S (GRATEFUL—COMFORTING) COCOA.


    =GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1878.=

    =BAKER’S=
    Breakfast Cocoa.

[Illustration]

Warranted _=absolutely pure Cocoa=_, from which the excess of Oil has
been removed. It has _three times the strength_ of Cocoa mixed with
Starch, Arrowroot or Sugar, and is therefore far more economical,
_costing less than one cent a cup_. It is delicious, nourishing,
strengthening, easily digested, and admirably adapted for invalids as
well as for persons in health.

=Sold by Grocers everywhere.=

    =W. BAKER & CO., Dorchester, Mass.=


BROWN’S FRENCH DRESSING.

=The Original! Beware of Imitations!=

AWARDED HIGHEST PRIZE AND ONLY

[Illustration: Trade Mark Registered Aug. 1st. 1871.

    BROWN’S
    LIQUID DRESSING
    ESTABLISHED.
    BOSTON
    1853

    CIRAGE FRANCAIS,
    —OR—
    FRENCH
    DRESSING
    —FOR—
    LADIES’ AND
    CHILDRENS’
    BOOTS & SHOES
    TRUNKS, HARNESS,
    CARRIAGE TOPS, etc.
    MANUFACTURED BY
    B. J. Brown.
    BOSTON, MASS.
]

MEDAL

PARIS EXPOSITION, 1878.

Highest Award New Orleans Exposition.


[Illustration: THE GREAT AMERICAN TEA COMPANY]

    GOOD NEWS
    TO LADIES.

Greatest inducements ever offered. Now’s your time to get up orders
for our celebrated =Teas= and =Coffees=, and secure a beautiful Gold
Band or Moss Rose China Tea Set, or Handsome Decorated Gold Band Moss
Rose Dinner Set, or Gold Band Moss Decorated Toilet Set. For full
particulars address

    =THE GREAT AMERICAN TEA CO.=,
    P. O. Box 289.      31 and 33 Vesey St., New York.


    No excuse for
    =STAMMERING=.

Send for our book, “School of Voice.”

    =11 East 14 Street,      New York.=


[Illustration]

=FACE, HANDS, FEET,= and all their imperfections, including Facial
Development, Hair and Scalp, Superfluous Hair, Birth Marks, Moles,
Warts, Moth, Freckles, Red Nose, Acne, B’lk Heads, Scars, Pitting and
their treatment. Send 10c. for book of 50 pages, 4th edition. =Dr. John
H. Woodbury, 37 North Pearl St., Albany, N. Y.= Established 1870.


=OLD GOLD!=

=In every household old-fashioned and worn jewelry and plate
accumulate, becoming “food” for burglars or petty thieves.=

If the readers of OUR LITTLE MEN AND WOMEN will get out their old gold,
old silver, old jewelry, and send it by mail or express to me, I will
send them by return mail a certified check for full value thereof.

    =J. H. JOHNSTON=,
    150 Bowery, Cor. Broome St., N. Y.


=DIAMOND DYES.=

[Illustration]

FOR SILK, WOOL, COTTON, =and all Fabrics and Fancy Articles. Any one
can use them. Anything can be colored.=

32 COLORS—10 CENTS EACH.

Remember, these are the only Pure, Harmless and Unadulterated Dyes.

Beware of other Dyes, because often Poisonous, Adulterated, Weak and
Worthless.

=We warrant these Dyes to color more goods, package for package, than
any other Dyes ever made, and to give more brilliant and durable
colors.=

    =THE DIAMOND=
    =GOLD=,      =SILVER=, =PAINTS=
    =BRONZE and COPPER=

For gilding Fancy Baskets, Frames, Lamps, Chandeliers, and for all
kinds of ornamental work. Equal to any of the high priced kinds and
only 10 cts. a package. Also Artists’ Black for Ebonizing.

Sold by Druggists everywhere. Send postal for Sample Card and
directions for coloring Photographs and doing fancy work.

    WELLS, RICHARDSON & CO., Burlington, Vt.


    =THE
    OLDEST
    THE
    BEST=

[Illustration: TOP

_=PAYSON’S=_ =INDELIBLE INK=, for Marking Linen, Silk & Cotton =WITH A
COMMON PEN=, Without a Preparation.

EST. 1835

PAYSON’S INK

PAYSON’S INDELIBLE INK]

Sold at all Drug and Book Stores. Estab’ed 50 Years.


    =Warren’s=

    [Illustration: FEATHERBONE]

    =DRESS STAY=.

Soft, Pliable and _Absolutely unbreakable_. Standard Quality, 15 cents
per yard. Cloth covered, 20 cents. Satin covered, 25 cents. For sale
everywhere. Try it.


    LADIES’
    =FANCY
    WORK=

=Ingalls’ Illustrated Catalogue= of Stamping Outfits, Felt, Linen and
Silk Stamped Goods, Fancy Work Materials, Books, Briggs’ Transfer
Patterns, etc., sent _free_ for one 2-c. stamp.

    =J. F. INGALLS, Lynn, Mass.=


ICE AND ROLLER SKATES.

[Illustration: BARNEY & BERRY]

SPRINGFIELD, MASS. CATALOGUE FREE


CANDY!

Send one, two, three or five dollars for a retail box, by express, of
the best Candies in the World, put up in handsome boxes. All strictly
pure. Suitable for presents. Try it once. Address

    C. F. GUNTHER, Confectioner, 78 Madison Street, Chicago.




WIDE AWAKE.

_A Look Ahead into 1888._


    The Christmas (Dec.) number will open with a noble
    Christmas poem by Edmund Clarence Stedman, entitled
    =The Star-Bearer=, with superb full-page frontispiece
    and text illustrations by Howard Pyle.

[Illustration: Edmund C. Stedman]

    The Holiday number will also give a poem by the witty
    English author, Andrew Lang, entitled the =Ballad of
    a Bad Boy=—which is to be received as an amusing bit
    of autobiography, for Mr. Lang writes: “It is true—and
    I hope moral!” The “bad boy” will be drawn by W. L.
    Taylor.

[Illustration: Andrew Lang]

    A third great feature of the Christmas number will be
    a complete African Serial Story by H. Rider Haggard,
    author of the famous books, “She,” “King Solomon’s
    Mines,” etc., etc. The story is called =A Tale of Three
    Lions=, and will have thrilling full-page illustrations
    by Heywood Hardy the English lion painter. The holiday
    number will be much enlarged to include this serial
    entire.

[Illustration: H. Rider Haggard]

=Farm-Life for Young People=, by Ik Marvel (Donald G. Mitchell),
_Out-of-Door Papers_ by John Burroughs, together with _Walking_,
_Rowing_, and _The Training of Dogs_, three papers by Louise Imogen
Guiney, will form a delightful phase of the coming volume.

    =My Uncle Florimond= is a beautiful and romantic
    Serial Story for boys by Sidney Luska, author of those
    popular novels of the day, “As It was Written,” “Mrs.
    Peixada,” and “The Yoke of the Thorah.” It is the first
    story which he has written for young folks. =My Uncle
    Florimond= is quite a new kind of magazine serial,
    and handsome Gregory Brace is quite a new kind of boy
    to be met in a story-book, though fortunately for the
    world there are some like him in real life. Fathers
    and mothers will like their young folks to make the
    acquaintance of this chivalric young fellow, and also
    of the true girl Rosalind. The illustrations will be by
    George Wharton Edwards.

[Illustration: Sidney Luska]

=A Painter of Child-Life.= (First Art Paper.) A beautiful art-paper for
children, by the English art-writer, T. Letherbrow, about the English
painter, Warwick Brookes, who was once a little “tear-boy” in the
Manchester cotton-mills, and afterwards rose to great eminence in art.
This remarkable article is to have twenty exquisite illustrations of
child-life from photographs of the artist’s paintings and drawings.

    A brace of sparkling Serial Stories, =Those Cousins
    of Mabel’s=, and =Double Roses=, will be contributed
    by Mrs. John Sherwood, author of Harper’s standard
    etiquette manuals, and of “Royal Girls and Royal
    Courts.” In these stories she does good service to her
    young countrywomen by showing them what a pleasant
    and comfortable thing it is to be acquainted with the
    usages of refined society and to conform to them. The
    loveliness and nobility of Mabel will render her the
    ideal “society girl” of young readers, and everybody
    will follow the experiences of the brilliant Phyllis
    and the piquant little Wilhelmina, the two girls from
    Haffreysberg, with blended amusement and sympathy.
    The life Mrs. Sherwood describes exists in all large
    cities, the same embarrassments entangle young
    strangers to social forms, the same heartlessness, over
    against the same loftiness of character, is found among
    people of fashion; and the counsel given to Phyllis and
    Wilhelmina will be as helpful to thousands of other
    girls—and certainly this social counsel could come
    from no higher authority than Mrs. Sherwood. Charming
    pictures will be drawn by W. L. Taylor.

[Illustration: M. E. W. Sherwood]

=Daniel Webster in New Hampshire.= (First Historical Article.)
Reminiscences, anecdotes, and gossip about the great statesman, given
to the author, Miss Amanda B. Harris, by Webster’s early friends and
neighbors in New Hampshire, or gathered from unpublished letters. With
portraits from life-photographs, and many sketches.

    =Plucky Small: His Story=, is a serial by Mary
    Bradford Crowninshield. “I was a wharf rat,” begins
    Plucky. Plucky’s friend, “The Tinker,” was another;
    “why ‘The Tinker,’” says Plucky, “he don’t know, nor
    I don’t know.” Plucky does a great brave deed, and
    on account of it he gets a chance to enlist “in the
    apprentice-service of a United States training-ship,”
    and so does “the Tinker,” and away they go on a long
    cruise, down around the south of Europe, into the
    Mediterranean, with stops at Marseilles, Gibraltar,
    and Havre—a whole ship-full of prankish boys; and how
    realistic the story is may be guessed from the fact
    that the author is the wife of Commander Crowninshield,
    now of the U. S. School-Ship _St. Mary’s_, and has
    cruised with the boys on other U. S. training-ships.
    Pictures by Frank T. Merrill.

[Illustration: Mary B. Crowninshield]

=About Rosa Bonheur.= (Second Art Paper.) This charming account of
the wonderful French woman who has painted the finest animal pictures
since Landseer has been written for WIDE AWAKE by Rosa Bonheur’s friend
of many years, the American artist, Henry Bacon. The picture of her
in studio dress painting the famous “Head of a Lion” was drawn by
Mr. Bacon; the portrait of her at eighteen is from a painting by her
brother, Auguste Bonheur. Full of anecdote and with many pictures.

    =Children of the White House=, by Mrs. Harriet Taylor
    Upton, is a series of articles of national importance
    and national interest. It is a wonder that this work
    has not been undertaken before for the pleasure and
    information of young Americans. Starting with the
    little Custises, the adopted children of Washington,
    this fascinating series, giving a chapter to each
    Presidential family, comes down to the present
    administration, gathering up delightful details of
    family life, and tracing the after histories of the
    Presidential children. Mrs. Upton for many years
    has had rare privileges of ransacking old annals in
    Washington, and interesting family reminiscences have
    been kindly recalled for her, and precious relics,
    portraits, and paintings furnished for photographing.

[Illustration: Harriet Taylor Upton]

=The Story of Boston Common=, by Edward Everett Hale, is now complete
in _MS._, and the long-expected series, touching much of early American
history, will be given, in three or more chapters, with historic and
modern pictures, during the coming summer.

    Certain old authors, certain old books, certain old
    nursery stories, have become household words and
    household treasures the world over. Under the title of
    =Dear Old Story-Tellers=, Mr. Adams will relate all of
    interest that is known about these dear old authors,
    books and stories. The series of twelve papers embrace
    Æsop, Arabian Nights, Mother Goose, Perrault, La
    Fontaine, Defoe, Madame de Genlis, Brothers Grimm, Hans
    Andersen, Laboulaye, La Motte-Fouqué—with authentic
    portraits, when such exist, and other illustrations.

[Illustration: Oscar Fay Adams]

=The Medal Children of the Renaissance.= (Third Art Paper.) An art
article for young readers by Frances H. Throop about some high-born
children of the fifteenth century, whose portraits were sculptured
or cast in medallions; these lovely medals are preserved in European
museums and collections, being regarded as precious art-treasures;
and Miss Throop has made casts and drawings from the originals to
illustrate her paper.

    =Around-the-World Stories= relate a dozen unique
    personal experiences—some diverting, some perilous—of
    the adopted daughter of Secretary of State, William H.
    Seward, on his journey around the world after he had
    recovered from the attack on his life at the time of
    the assassination of President Lincoln. Miss Seward is
    a born story-teller, and whether she is describing _A
    Dinner at Kensington Palace_, or _A Visit to the Great
    Wall of China_, or _Experiences as a Lion-Tamer_, or
    _Adventures in the Streets of Pekin_, the interest
    is always breathless, the story always novel.
    Illustrations by Wm. T. Smedley and others.

[Illustration: Olive Risley Seward]

=An Old House on Royal Street.= (Second Historical Article.) This
delightful paper about old New Orleans and early Louisiana by Mrs. M.
E. M. Davis (author of _In War-Times at La Rose Blanche_), written
in the old house that was General Jackson’s headquarters, abounds in
reminiscences of Indian, French, Spanish and Creole days, of Jackson,
Galvez, the pirate Lafitte, Bienville, Pere Antoine, Don Almonaster,
and other famous men of the Southwest. Full of portraits.

    =Eurania’s Boys= is the title of a story by Margaret
    Sidney: Mrs. Eurania Stebbins and several members
    of her family being called away suddenly from home,
    her two boys keep house—not exactly according to her
    methods!

[Illustration: Margaret Sidney]

ELBRIDGE S. BROOKS will contribute a series of practical papers for
young people embodying suggestions helpful to them in their desire
to get on in the world. The papers will be a departure from the
customary “Letters to Young Men.” They will be, rather, in the spirit
of appreciation and comradeship, and will endeavor to indicate and open
toward the possibilities that exist for the boys and girls of America
in these busy days that are merging into the twentieth century.

In a series of informing articles about the =U. S. Naval and Military
Schools=, Mr. Peale tells the boys and their home friends explicitly
what applicants must know and do in order to enter any of the U. S.
Government schools, exactly what is expected of them during the years
of training, what obligations to the Government they thereby take
upon themselves, and what the schools and the Government do for the
boys. While full of picturesque interest for the general reader, the
series form a manual for boys aspiring to enter the army and the navy.
Illustrations.

[Illustration: Louis T. Peale]

=For Business Boys= will be pithy, unforgettable, lifting words,
straight from man to boy, as felt and said by a man whose business
writing is even better known than his name—a companion paper to Mr.
Brooks’ series.

    Our Asiatic Cousins will be the subject of a series
    of illustrated articles running through the year, by
    Mrs. Leonowens, who was for some years governess in the
    royal family of Siam, and who has travelled extensively
    in the East.

[Illustration: A. H. Leonowens]

=Among Sir Walter Ralegh’s Homes.= (Third Historical Article.) Sir
Walter is everybody’s hero, and Mrs. Raymond Blathwayt has written a
charming paper about his birthplace and his young days, and she has
sent over many beautiful photographs of his old haunts made expressly
for WIDE AWAKE; the manuscript itself has been prepared under the
friendly supervision of Dr. Brushfield the English antiquarian and
great Ralegh authority.

    =The Cruise of a Coverlet=, being the adventures of
    an embroidered counterpane in the U. S. Navy, will be
    related by Mrs. Frémont. Illustrations from photographs.

[Illustration: “Jessie” Benton Frémont]

=Typical Children of England=, by Julia Cartwright, will be a notable
article, illustrated with most charming pictures of English children
of the present day, all from life studies—the aristocratic type, the
peasant type, the athletic, the spiritual, etc.

    Brilliant additions to the preceding serials and
    specialties will include ballads, poems, and the
    following

_Interesting illustrated articles:_

  =Some Chinese Dragons=, by Prof. Robert Douglas of the British Museum.

  =About Sea Serpents=, by Dr. Samuel Kneeland.

  =How Jew’s-harps Grow=, by Prof. Otis T. Mason of the Smithsonian
        Institution.

  =The Ramona School for Indian Girls=, by Rev. Dr. Horatio Ladd.

  =An Ant of Annisquam=, by Harlan A. Ballard, President of the Agassiz
        Association.

  =My Friends, the Dogs=, by Maud Howe. [With portrait of Miss Howe and
        Sambo, from Porter’s painting now in the Corcoran Gallery.]

  =The Wild Cattle of Chillingly=, by Amanda B. Harris.

  =All Around an Old Meeting-House=, by Frances A. Humphrey.

  =The Old Ballad of London Bridge=, by Susan Archer Weiss.

  =The Boyhood of Paul H. Hayne=, by Margaret J. Preston.


_Interesting illustrated stories:_

  =The Little Captive Chief=, by Miss Owen.

  =Two Girls—Two Parties=, by Susan Coolidge.

  =A Piece of News: Aunt Ray’s Cat=, a humorous dialogue, by Margaret
        Sidney.

  =Puck and Puppypult=, a singular story, by George Parsons Lathrop.

  =Cat Isabel=, by M. H. Catherwood, with many funny pictures.

  =A Stray Shot=, by Hartwell Moore.

  =A New Birthday=, by Rose Hawthorne Lathrop.

  =The Squire’s Sixpence=, by Mary E. Wilkins.

  =A Night in a Beaver Town=, a curious account by Edmund Collins.

  =Sabot=, by Katharine S. Macquoid.

  =The “Shut-Ins,”= by Mrs. Peattie.

  =The Bull and the Leaping Pole=, by Charles G. D. Roberts.

  =Saved on the Brink=, by J. Macdonald Oxley.

Further papers about =Famous Pets= are in preparation; =Tangles= will
have new novelties; =The Contributors and the Children=, and other
departments, will grow in interest; the artistic features will continue
to delight young and old alike.

  [Pointing Hand] Now is the time to subscribe, and to obtain valuable
        Premiums by getting your friends to subscribe also.

  _Wide Awake, in spite of unprecedented attractions, will still be
        $2.40 a year._
  _Address orders and inquiries to_

  D. LOTHROP COMPANY, Boston.




    BABYLAND _What Babies and Mammas
    may look for during 1888._


The twelve numbers of BABYLAND for 1888 will be like twelve Christmas
stockings stuffed full of delights—the choicest nuts, candies and
raisins of jingledom and storyland; and there will be three special big
delicious bon-bons besides.

    =Me and Toddlekins= is a story told by “Me,” whose
    other name is Mew-mew, and written down by Margaret
    Johnson, with cunning pictures of “Me” and Toddlekins,
    and their doings, drawn by the same Margaret Johnson.

    =Six New Finger Plays= will be contributed by Emilie
    Poulsson. The instant popularity of the first series
    of Finger Plays, among little children, mothers, and
    kindergarten teachers, has tempted Miss Poulsson to
    prepare six more; the verses are delightfully amusing
    and graceful, and the pictorial instructions showing
    how to play the Plays, and the pictures themselves,
    will be by the same artist, Mr. L. J. Bridgman.

    =Allie and the Crickets= will be the subject of six
    dear little stories that the crickets told to Baby
    Allie—some on the hearth as she sat in her mother’s lap
    at twilight, some when she was at play out in the sunny
    fields—very cunning little stories all of them (which
    Clara Doty Bates overheard and has related for other
    babies). Many pictures.

BABYLAND will be full of pictures, too, big and beautiful, little and
funny; and it will be printed in large clear black letters, as usual,
on strong fine paper, and have pretty pink covers. All sent by mail for
50 cents a year.




    OUR LITTLE MEN AND WOMEN _A glimpse
    into 1888._


This magazine for youngest readers will be even more entertaining in
text and pictures than in the past, and in the stories will be hidden
bits of wisdom as well. There will be seventy-five full-page pictures.

    =Stories of Captain John Smith and Princess
    Pocahontas=, twelve of them, will be related by Frances
    A. Humphrey; they will be accompanied with many
    historical pictures.

    =Laura’s Holidays=, a serial story in twelve chapters,
    by Henrietta K. Eliot, will relate what one little
    girl did in a year of holidays. Full-page pictures by
    Elizabeth S. Tucker.

    =Tiny Folks in Armor= is the title of twelve talks
    about beetles, by Fannie A. Deane. There will be
    pictures of the beetles.

    There will be a set of =Twelve Flower Poems= by Clara
    Doty Bates, whose bird poems have been so popular the
    past year.

    =Buffy’s Letters to his Mistress=, six in all, will
    be published by the kind permission of Elizabeth F.
    Parker. Buffy is a coon-cat, and his doings will be
    pictured by L. J. Bridgman.

    =Little People of the Plaza= will be told about in six
    Mexican stories by Jennie Stealey. Some Mexican animals
    also.

    Adapted from the French there will be =Susanna’s
    Auction=, in six funny chapters, each chapter with
    funny pictures.

Besides these serials and series, there will be a treasury of short
stories and verses, bright and interesting, and full of pictures as
a Christmas pudding with plums. The best magazine for home and school
reading. $1.00 a year by mail.




    THE PANSY _Pansy’s Own Magazine.
    Something about 1888._


    =Up Garret= is the title of Pansy’s new serial, and
    readers of “A Sevenfold Trouble” will be glad to know
    it is a sequel to that story, and to continue their
    acquaintance with its people.

    The Golden Text Stories for 1888 will be given under
    the title of =We Twelve Girls=, and they will be the
    actual accounts of how twelve girls tried to live by
    certain golden texts.

    The “Little Red Shop” has roused such interest that
    Margaret Sidney will relate more about Jack, Cornelius,
    Rosalie, and the baby, in a sequel to be called =The
    Old Brimmer Place=.

    =Treasures: Their Hiding and Finding= is the title of
    a new serial by Rev. C. M. Livingston, full of wise
    entertainment.

    [Pointing Hand] The Pansy Society will have a special serial. All
        departments will be continued, some new features added,
    and stories, poems and pictures will have ample place. Mailed for
        $1.00 a year.

    _Address all orders and inquiries to_

    D. LOTHROP COMPANY, BOSTON.


=A Midshipman at Large.=

By CHARLES R. TALBOT. 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

An escapade of a bright young fellow who “shipped” for a yachting
cruise in vacation.

The story has nothing to do with the question whether it pays to know
one’s work and do it and “be,” as the phrase goes, “a gentleman”;
but, if the reader chooses to think of them, he will find plenty of
stimulant.


=Storied Holidays.=

By ELBRIDGE S. BROOKS, author of The American Indian, In Leisler’s
Times, In No-Man’s Land, and others. 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

An historic tale connected with a holiday in every month of the year.

There is the snapdragon Christmas quarrel of James I. of England with
his sons about the release of Sir Walter Raleigh; a New Year’s meeting
of Margery More with Henry VIII; how William Penn got his motto “Be
true, be leal, be constant,” on St. Valentine’s Day; how the Earl of
Kildare kept St. Patrick’s; the wise men of Gotham fool King John on
the first of April; and so on through the months.

These stories out of history practise one in the times they take him
back to.


=Eighty-Seven.=

By MRS. G. R. ALDEN (Pansy, author of the hundred Pansy books and
editor of _The Pansy_ magazine). 12mo, cloth, 1.50.

    What is very widely known, but to many obscurely known
    as the Chautauqua movement is told with a fulness that
    people would lack the patience to read, if the tale
    began there and stopped there.

    Begins with a little civilized girl and a
    runaway—actually a tramp. But trust Pansy for making
    good company.

    A novel with the distinctly double purpose of
    showing how the Reading Circles gather together for
    self-improvement the most impossible people young and
    old, and of recommending religious life.


=Honor Bright Series.=

12 mo, cloth, illustrated, each, 1.25.

    Four Boy Stories. By CHARLES R. TALBOT. Brisk and
    unconventional, bright as boy stories can be. Girl
    stories, too.

    STORY OF HONOR BRIGHT.

    ROYAL LOWRIE: A GENERAL MISUNDERSTANDING.

    ROYAL LOWRIE’S LAST YEAR AT ST. OLAVES.

    A DOUBLE MASQUERADE: A ROMANCE OF THE REVOLUTION.


=Our Adventure Library.=

    12mo, cloth, illustrated, each, 1.25. Four books of
    disconnected short stories.

=In City and Camp.=

    Thirteen boys’ stories. By JAMES OTIS, KATE FOOTE, MARY
    HARTWELL CATHERWOOD, J. E. COTTIN, ERNEST INGERSOLL,
    FLORA HAINES APPONZI, C. E. S. WOOD, F. L. STEALEY,
    ELLEN OLNEY KIRK, HELEN E. SWETT, ALICE WELLINGTON
    ROLLINS and ANNA LEACH.

=Little Gold Miners of the Sierras and Other Stories.=

    By JOAQUIN MILLER, MARION HARLAND, MARY CATHERINE LEE,
    H. F. MARSH, KATE GANETT WELLS, GEORGE F. HEBARD, A. M.
    GRIFFIN, JAMES OTIS, JOHN PRESTON TRUE, GEORGE VARNEY
    and MARY B. CLAFLIN.

=Foreign Facts and Fancies.=

    Stories of Travel. By ANNIE SAWYER DOWNS, CHARLOTTE S.
    FURSDON, MARY GAY HUMPHREYS, CULLING CLIVER EARDLEY,
    ROSE G. KINGSLEY, S. W. DUFFIELD, ARTHUR GILMAN, JULIAN
    B. ARNOLD, DAVID KER, LUCY C. LILLIE, MRS. RAYMOND
    BLATHWAYTE, ARTHUR F. J. CRANDALL and C. E. ANDREWS.

=Stories of Danger and Adventure.=

    Twenty-five. By EMMA W. DEMERITT, CAROLINE ATWATER
    MASON, FREDERICK SCHWATKA, ROSE G. KINGSLEY, F. L.
    STEALEY, LIZZIE W. CHAMPNEY, HAMILTON W. MABIE, NORA
    PERRY, GRANMERE JULIE, JANE HOWARD, D. C. MCDONALD,
    MRS. MARY A. PARSONS, MARGARET LEBOUTILLIN, BELLE
    STEWART, LUCY LINCOLN MONTGOMERY, ERSKINE M. HAMILTON,
    GARRY GAINS, THEODORA R. JENNESS, LOUISE STOCKTON,
    H. M. S., MRS. ANNIE A. PRESTON, B. P. SHILLABER and
    CHARLES E. BOLTON.


=Boyhood Library.=

3 vols., 12mo, each 1.25.

=Adventures of Tad.=

    By FRANK H. CONVERSE. A Philadelphia street-boy’s race
    with fortune takes him to Boston and farther. Somehow
    he gets into the way of picking out the proper thing to
    do and doing it.

=Boys of Cary Farm.=

    By MINNA CAROLINE SMITH. A Western story of city and
    country boys together who have a good time and get
    experience.

=An Ocean Tramp.=

    By PHILIP D. HAYWOOD. A boy sea-story. It begins well:
    “I go to sea.”


=Popular Biographies.=

18 volumes, 12mo, cloth, 1.50.


Take these four:

    OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES. By E. E. Brown.
    JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL. By E. E. Brown.
    HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW. By W. S. Kennedy.
    JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER. By W. S. Kennedy.

To review their lives and work and catch the spirit of both in 300 or
400 pages of easy type is to give the bones of biography; which is all
nine tenths of us have the time to read; and the other tenth are glad
of the bones before they come to the more elaborate whole.

The other fourteen:

    CHARLES XII, KING OF SWEDEN. By M. de Voltaire.
    CHARLES DICKENS. By P. A. Hanaford.
    BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. By Jeremiah Chaplin.
    HORACE GREELEY. By William Cornell.
    JAMES A. GARFIELD. By E. E. Brown.
    ULYSSES S. GRANT. By E. E. Brown.
    AMOS LAWRENCE. By William R. Lawrence.
    ABRAHAM LINCOLN. By P. A. Hanaford.
    DAVID LIVINGSTONE. By John S. Roberts.
    LORD NELSON. By Robert Southey.
    ISRAEL PUTNAM. By I. N. Tarbox.
    GEORGE PEABODY. By P. A. Hanaford.
    CHARLES SUMNER. By J. and J. D. Chaplin.
    BAYARD TAYLOR. By Russel H. Conwell.
    DANIEL WEBSTER. By Joseph Banvard.
    HENRY WILSON. By Elias Nason.


=Young Folks’ Stories of Foreign Lands.=

Edited by Pansy. First and second series, 4to, boards, each .75.

    Sketches, tales and pictures on Old-World subjects.


=Young Folks’ Stories of American History and Home Life.=

First and second series. Edited by Pansy. 4to, boards, each .75.

    Sketches, tales and pictures on New-World subjects.


=Stories and Pictures of Wild Animals.=

By ANNA F. BURNHAM. 4to, boards, .75.

    Big letters, big pictures, and easy stories of
    elephants, lions, tigers, lynxes, jaguars, bears, and
    many others.


=Stories and Pictures of Domestic Animals.=

By ANNA F. BURNHAM. 4to, boards .75.

    Big letters, big pictures, and easy stories of farm and
    house animals.



=Five Little Peppers and How They Grew.=

By MARGARET SIDNEY. Illustrated, 12mo, cloth, 1.50.

    Story of five little children of a fond and faithful
    and capable “mamsie.” Full of young life and family
    talk. How they lived in the little brown house and how
    they came to go out of it. One of the most successful
    books of a bright and always cheery writer.


=Two Modern Little Princes.=

By MARGARET SIDNEY. Illustrated, 16mo, cloth, 1.00.

    Eight rollicking stories of children. And some of the
    children are those same Peppers.


=Hester, and Other New England Stories.=

By MARGARET SIDNEY. 12mo, cloth, 1.25.

    For older readers. Eleven stories in which New England
    dialect, customs, ways, and people appear with many
    in-door and out-door notions.


=Art For Young Folks.=

Square 8vo, boards, tinted edges, 1.50; cloth, gilt edges, 2.25.

    Two boys go to the Water Color Exhibition and make
    numerous sketches of what they see there. Between the
    pictures is picture-talk.

    Then the professor discourses on tools and colors and
    books and schools and models—in general, means of art.

    Then an account of the Children’s Hour: a novel art
    school. And portraits, examples and sketches of
    twenty-four American Artists. With a few useful words
    on architecture.


=Christmas Snow Flakes.=

4to, boards, 1.50; cloth, 2.25.

    Poems of all the year round, done up with pictures for
    children at Christmas.


=New England Story-Book.=

4to, boards, 1.50; cloth, 2.25.

    A picture-and-story-book by New England authors.


=The Poet and the Children.=

4to, boards, gilt edges, 1.50; cloth, 2.25. By JOHN G. WHITTIER.

    And nearly two hundred other poems for children with as
    many pictures for children.


=Mountain Series.=

4 vols, 12mo, cloth, each, 1.00.

=The Last Penacook.=

    By ABEL B. BERRY. A New Hampshire historical story of
    Indian times.

=A New England Idyl.=

    By BELLE C. GREENE. A story of family life in one of
    the shut-in nooks of New Hampshire, Sherburne “Holler,”
    where souls are sometimes out of all proportion to
    their surroundings.

=Swiss Stories.=

    For children, and for those who love children. From
    the German of Madame Spyri by LUCY WHEELOCK. Five
    delightful tales of present life in Switzerland.

=Uncle Titus.=

    A story for children and those who love children.
    From the German of Madame Spyri by LUCY WHEELOCK.
    The pleasant and unpleasant people and circumstances
    somehow fall together naturally to work up a little
    earthly paradise, the delights of which in no way
    depend on accidental surroundings but on generosity of
    soul.


=Children’s Outdoor Neighbors.=

Three instructive and interesting books by MRS. A. E. ANDERSON-MASKELL.
12mo, cloth, each 1.00.

    CHILDREN WITH ANIMALS.
    CHILDREN WITH BIRDS.
    CHILDREN WITH FISHES.


=Winter Evening Tales.=

4 volumes, 16mo, 3.00.

    Four books of nearly a dozen each short stories and
    sketches by many authors.


=Young Folks’ Book-shelf.=

6 volumes, 16mo, each .60.

=Health and Strength Papers for Girls.=

What a wise physician said to a frail young girl and her mother
together, and what the gymnasium is good for.

=Helpful Thoughts for Young Men.=

Three baccalaureate sermons.

=In Case of Accident.=

A competent man’s series of talks on emergencies. Much in a little book.

=Our Business Boys.=

Eighty-three successful men say what they think of the means of success
and avoidance of failure. With these opinions the author makes this
book—a little book with a great deal in it.

=Red Letter Stories.=

Two delightful Swiss stories. Madame Spyri.

=Temperance Teachings of Science.=

A short treatise on the hygiene of alcohol.


=Lothrop’s Historical Library.=

    =Alaska.= Its Southern coast and the Sitkan
    Archipelago. By ELIZA RUHAMAH SCIDMORE. Illustrated
    from photographs. 12mo, cloth, 1.50.

    =History of the American People.= By ARTHUR GILMAN, M.
    A. 12mo, cloth, 668 pages, fully illustrated, 1.50. A
    scholarly history short and fairly full and, what is of
    great account for popular use, sympathetic. A patriotic
    work well done.

    =China.= By ROBERT K. DOUGLAS. 12mo, cloth, 566 pages,
    fully illustrated, 1.50. Very brief as to history.
    Chiefly an account of present customs.

    =Egypt= (The History of). By CLARA ERSKINE CLEMENT.
    12mo, cloth, 100 full page illustrations, 476 pages,
    1.50. A sketch from the earliest date to the British
    occupation.

    =India= (The History of). By FANNIE ROPER FEUDGE. 12mo,
    cloth, 100 full-page illustrations, 640 pages, 1.50.
    An account of the country and people as they are by a
    resident; with a brief survey of history.

    =Japan and its Leading Men.= By CHARLES LANMAN. 12mo,
    cloth, illustrated, 1.50. Sketches of eminent Japanese
    men with a glance at the national history.

    =Spain= (The History of). By Prof. JAMES ALBERT
    HARRISON. 12mo, cloth, 100 full-page illustrations, 717
    pages, 1.50. A brief but careful history.

    =Switzerland= (The History of). By HARRIET D. SLIDELL
    MACKENZIE. 12mo, cloth, 100 full-page illustrations,
    385 pages, 1.50. The story of a most interesting people
    in simple language.


=MacDonald’s Latest Books.=

    =Donal Grant.= 12mo, cloth, 1.50. “It was granted,
    however, that if a boy stayed with him long enough he
    was sure to turn out a gentleman.”—Let that sentence
    out of it stand for the book.

    =Imagination= (The) and other Essays. 12mo, cloth,
    1.50. A volume of essays mostly on literary subjects.

    =Warlock o’ Glenwarlock.= 12mo, cloth, illustrated,
    1.50. A lad without fortune works his way in Scotland.

    =What’s Mine’s Mine.= 12mo, cloth, 1.50. A novel which
    shows in action the beauty of love and faithfulness.

    =Weighed and Wanting.= 12mo, cloth, 1.50. A noble woman
    escapes a sordid husband.


=Round World Series.=

Each volume, 12mo, cloth, 1.25.

    =Dorothy Thorn of Thornton.= By JULIAN WARTH. A
    vigorous, even, well-sustained, intensely interesting,
    wholesome story.

    =The Full Stature of a Man.= By JULIAN WARTH. The
    author’s first novel; a very promising one.

    =Gladys: A Romance.= By MARY G. DARLING. This skein is
    untangled in a perfectly natural fashion—when you look
    back from the finis, which means a great deal more than
    it says.

    =Grafenburg People.= By REUEN THOMAS. A novel out of a
    row in the church—a good one; that is, novel, not row.

    =Romance of a Letter.= By LOWELL CHOATE. A life with an
    inflexible purpose turns out happy or not, according
    to—what? The old question: When do we arrive at “years
    of discretion?”

    =Rusty Linchpin and Luboff Archipovna.= By MADAME
    KOKHANOVSKY. Two stories of Russian life, of
    characteristic simplicity and interest.




  _Volume 15, Number 1._    Copyright, 1887, by D. LOTHROP COMPANY.
      _November 5, 1887._

THE PANSY.


[Illustration: THE CAT THAT COULD OPEN DOORS.]




“WE TWELVE GIRLS.”

    WHOSOEVER, THEREFORE, SHALL CONFESS ME BEFORE MEN,
    HIM WILL I CONFESS ALSO, BEFORE MY FATHER WHICH IS IN
    HEAVEN.

    HE WAS A BURNING AND A SHINING LIGHT.

    COME UNTO ME, ALL YE THAT LABOR AND ARE HEAVY LADEN,
    AND I WILL GIVE YOU REST.

    IT IS LAWFUL TO DO WELL ON THE SABBATH DAYS.


I SHALL have to begin the story for you, or you would never understand.
It happened that the twelve girls in Mr. Shepard’s Bible class were
very nearly of an age; were class-mates in day school, as well as on
Sundays, and were very fond of one another.

They lived in different parts of the country, but were gathered in
Clayville at boarding-school.

It came to pass that on this year of which I write, they were to be
widely scattered; only one was to return to the school in the fall. It
was because of this fact that the thought grew up, out of which grows
my story. On the last Sabbath before they separated, Mr. Shepard gave
to each a tiny book of texts; one for each week, with the hint that he
would like them to live by those words in the coming year.

This set them to thinking and to talking. After many plans, it was
finally agreed that they should each select a month in which to write
a letter that should give some account of an experience connected with
one of the verses for that month. These letters were to be passed by
mail from one member of the class to another until each had read them;
and I, being a particular friend of several of the girls, have the
privilege of reading them, and of making a copy for you, my Blossoms.

Cora Stevens had the month of November, and, without more introduction,
I give you her letter:

    MAPLEWOOD, _Nov. 18_—

    YOU DEAR GIRLS:

    I hope you every one miss me as much as I do you!
    Really and truly, I am dreadfully homesick for school!
    But this is my special letter, so I must not take time
    for anything else. I’m sorry I promised to write the
    first one, because I don’t know just how to write it,
    and I have such a mean, silly little story to tell,
    that I’m ashamed of it, anyhow.

I chose that verse about “confessing before men,” for the one to write
my letter on. And I meant to go to the young people’s meeting, and to
the Band, and confess Him in some way that would be nice to tell; and I
didn’t do anything of the kind.

Don’t you think my story is about a cat! Who would have supposed that a
cat would get mixed up with a verse like that?

We went to grandma’s, as usual, for the month of November, but things
there were very unusual, for aunt Kate was married, and the house was
full of company and confusion.

It is about the wedding day that I’m to tell you. I wish you could have
seen the tables after they were ready. They did look too lovely for
anything! The central table was magnificent. All the old silver and
queer, quaint china which have been in grandma’s family for ages, had
been brought out for decoration, and people say that the tablecloth
was the finest piece of old damask that has ever been used in this
part of the world. If I had Nettie’s descriptive powers, I could give
you a picture of the whole; but as it is, I want you to confine your
attention to one dish—the loveliest cut-glass beauty that was ever
seen. It was amber-colored sometimes, with little threads of crimson
running through it, which reminded one of a sunset. Besides, it was a
very peculiarly-shaped dish, and as frail as a cobweb. Uncle Fred found
it in Paris, and brought it to the bride. Uncle Fred, you understand,
is the bridegroom.

Well, it was on the special wedding table, just before the bride’s
seat, and was filled with the most exquisite flowers.

Grandma did not want the dish used, because it was so frail and so
rare, but aunt Kate insisted that it should be placed just there, and
be filled with orange-buds.

Grandma had just seen that the very last touches had been put to the
table, and had taken the children in for a look, and then had said, as
she shut the dining-room door: “Now, don’t one of you children open
that door again. I wouldn’t have anything go wrong in there for a great
deal.”

Then she went up to take a last look at aunt Kate, before she became
Mrs. Fred Somerville.

Just at that moment little Sallie Evans came running down the hall,
her eyes full of tears. Her mamma had called her just as grandma took
the children in to see the tables, and she had missed the sight.

“And now I sha’n’t see them at all, till everything is spoiled,” she
said, “for they aren’t going to let the little bits of cousins come to
the first table.” And she sobbed outright.

Now it never entered my mind that grandma meant me, when she said, “You
children,” because—well, because, you know, I am thirteen, and there
are three at home, younger than I, and I’m used to being trusted. So I
said, “Never mind, Sallie, I’ll let you look at them; but you must look
fast, for it is almost time for the wedding.”

So, in we went. And Sallie, who is the most beauty-loving little
creature of eight, whom I ever saw, seemed to have eyes only for that
lovely glass dish, which she had never seen before. She clasped her
hands together with an eager little “Oh!” and ran towards it. I don’t
suppose she would have touched it, but I was excited, and so afraid
she would, that I ran after her, calling out, “Don’t touch anything!”
and put out my hand to prevent it. And then, I don’t know how it
happened—does anybody know how such accidents happen? The lace from
my sleeve caught in one of the points of the glass, or in one of the
stems of flowers, or somehow,—I don’t suppose I could do it again if I
tried,—but over that glass went, the water pouring itself out in the
most disgusting way, on the damask cloth, and a long crooked piece
snapped from the upper edge of the dish!

O, dear! Don’t ask me how I felt. I couldn’t describe it, even though
I were sitting on the dear old bed at No. 7, with half a dozen of you
beside me, and the rest cuddled around close at hand.

There wasn’t any time to do anything. I heard them calling, at that
moment, for I was one of the bridesmaids. I just had to force back my
tears and my fright, and run and take my place in the procession. We
all got through it somehow. I hope aunt Kate heard what the minister
said; I didn’t; but it is safe to say that she was not thinking of what
I was.

Immediately after the ceremony, we went to the dining-room, and then
the awful accident was discovered. I don’t know which I was the most
sorry for, grandma or myself. I didn’t mean to tell about it then,
because I thought it wouldn’t be the proper time; and then, of course,
it would be dreadful to have to speak before them at all.

But what should grandma do, after we were all seated, and the eating
had begun, but lean over to aunt Kate and say in a low tone: “That is
some of Jill’s work; if I don’t get rid of a cat who can open doors,
before I am a day older, it will be because I am not smart enough.”

Now, Jill is the cutest cat that was ever born, I do believe; there
isn’t a door in grandma’s house that she cannot manage to open almost
as well as though she had hands.

I never thought of her blaming the cat; and now the story came out,
just as they guessed it had happened, and all the people at our end of
the table talked it over.

Even then, I don’t know whether I would have spoken, because Jill is
only a cat, you know, and her feelings couldn’t be hurt by bearing
blame that didn’t belong to her for a few hours, until I could see
grandma alone. But, just as I was thinking that, I heard grandma say:
“The fault rests with little John. I charged him a dozen times to keep
watch of that cat, and not on any account let her out of the barn
to-day; and that is all the good it did! I think I have given John a
lesson on obedience that he will remember.”

Now John is the little errand boy; a real nice chubby little fellow,
who was very fond of aunt Kate, and who had never tasted wedding cake,
and he was to drive one of the carriages to the depot that very day, to
see the bridal party off.

It all came over me like a flash—how grandma would forbid his coming
in to the wedding supper, and how she would not let him drive to the
depot, but would send him to bed; and I felt just as though I should
choke!

Even then, it didn’t seem to me that I could speak out then and there;
and I don’t believe I could have done it, but for the verse.

Girls, I know you don’t see how the verse is coming in, and I can’t
explain myself how it seemed to fit; there was certainly nothing about
“confessing” Jesus in my telling of what I had done. And yet, you see,
I knew I ought to tell, and I know it is what Jesus would do in my
place, and it would be showing that I wanted to copy him, and—well,
anyhow, it seemed to fit exactly, though I can’t explain it. And I
spoke right out, loud and fast: “Grandmother, it wasn’t the cat; John
didn’t let the cat out; it was I did it.”

My voice sounded so loud that it almost seemed as though they could
hear me down at the church; the people at our table all stopped
talking, and I just knew they could hear my heart beat.

“You!” said grandma. “You let the cat out?”

“No, ma’am,” I said, “I broke the dish.”

Then she questioned, and I answered, until somehow, she had the whole
story.

I don’t think any tears dropped, but my eyes and my throat felt full
of them. It didn’t seem to me that I could say another word, and then
grandma said: “Well, well, child, there are worse things in the world
than broken dishes. Eat your wedding cake, and think no more about it.”
And I heard her call one of the waiters, and say to him: “Tell little
John that he may dress himself again in his best suit, and come to the
dining-room as soon as he is ready.” Then I knew that I had been none
too soon with my confession.

And the bride, my dear, sweet aunt Kate, leaned over toward me and
spoke low, “There are better things than glass dishes,” she said;
“there are little nieces who are true.”

And papa looked across the table at me, and nodded, and smiled.

And in spite of the lovely broken dish, and the tablecloth, and my
being ashamed, and all, I never felt happier in my life.

And as for the verse, if you girls can’t fit it to the cat story, I
shall not be surprised; for I can’t explain it myself, but I know they
fitted when the time came. Good-by!

                                        Your loving, lonely
                                                       CORA.

==========

WATER that flows from a spring, does not freeze in the coldest winter.
And those sentiments of true friendship which flow from the heart
cannot be frozen by adversity.




A THANKSGIVING DINNER.


THERE are four of us young people at home: first I, who am sixteen,
then there is a long gap, and next comes Katie, who is eight, and
Bessie, who is six, and last of all baby Harry, who is not yet two. But
we were all a year younger when what I mean to tell you of happened,
for that was a year ago.

I spoke of Katie and Bessie and Harry and myself as the young people,
because I think I am rather too old to be called a child, and I didn’t
know how else to put it, but I don’t at all mean to call father and
mother old. It is true father has a great many gray streaks in his
hair, but I think that is more from care than from age.

It makes me sad, however, very sad, to see father’s hair changing
color; but when I speak of it, he only laughs and says: “The whites are
gaining the ascendency, and the aborigines becoming extinct.”

Father and mother have not looked like themselves since the summer
mother was so ill. That was the most dreadful period of my life, I am
sure. For a long time we thought she couldn’t recover. She was ill,
of course, to begin with, and then the expense of having a doctor and
nurse preyed on her mind and made against her. I really believe mother
minded that more than the pain she suffered! At one time she got so
nervous with thinking of it, that she said Dr. May’s visits did her
more harm than good, and declared she wouldn’t see him again; but Dr.
Armstrong, our minister, happened to come in just then, and he soon
reasoned her out of all that and made her see things differently.

There couldn’t possibly be a nicer minister than Dr. Armstrong,—I can’t
begin to say how much I love him; better, indeed, than anybody in the
world, outside of home, except a dear friend, Miss Judith Hepburn.
Miss Judith lives next door to us; she is old and very poor; she has,
in fact, nothing in the world but the house she lives in, and so she
occupies only one of the rooms on the first floor, and lives on the
rent from the others. But Miss Judith is as happy as if she possessed
all this world has to offer, and happier, too, for that matter, and
this is because she is such a true Christian. “Whatever befalls us is
good,” she says, “whether it comes in the shape of prosperity or of
adversity, because everything is bestowed by a loving Hand.”

[Illustration: AMUSING BABY HARRY.]

I forgot to say, all this while, that my name is Annie—Annie Gray—but
Miss Judith never calls me anything but “Martha.” She commenced this
when mother was ill, because I kept so busy, and perhaps, too, because
I was “troubled about many things,” for indeed I was all during her
illness, and for a long time after, too, for the debt we owed to the
doctor and nurse hung like a black cloud over the household. It is
different with some people, but debt has always seemed a very serious
evil to us. I believe father has dreaded it almost more than anything
else, and up to mother’s illness, he had always avoided it; but the
demands which sickness makes are very great, and can’t be easily
disregarded.

Ah! how often I have heard father say: “Owe no man anything,” after
which he would always add, “whether this is a Divine command, or only
loving counsel I cannot say, but, in either case, I shall not willingly
disregard it.”

Well, it was right funny, but soon after mother’s illness, Dr.
Armstrong commenced his Friday evening lectures to the congregation “On
Secular Matters,” as he said in his notice. Father took me to the first
one, and I couldn’t help giving his hand a squeeze when he gave out
the subject, “Debts: How They are Made, and How They May be Paid.” I
can’t remember the words he used, which is a pity, but Dr. Armstrong’s
words, as well as his thoughts, are forcible, but I know the sense
of it all was that debts are generally commenced in a small way,
little by little, little by little, they are added one to the other,
till presently an account is presented to us of such overwhelming
proportions that we despair of ever wiping it out. “But I trust,” he
added, “that none of my friends who find themselves in this unhappy
situation will give way for a moment to a feeling of discouragement.
Step by step have we been led into trouble; let us retrace our way in
like manner, step by step. Begin from this moment a system of judicious
retrenchment; lay aside sums, never mind how trifling, toward the
liquidation of your debt, and little by little it will melt away, till,
almost unconsciously to yourself, it has disappeared, and you, again a
free man, ‘can look the whole world in the face.’”

“Ah, that was practical! That was what I needed!” said father, as
we came out after the lecture was over, “and I, for one, shall not
‘approve the doctrine and immediately practice the contrary.’ No; from
this very moment I shall begin to retrench and put by. Ah, Annie, ‘a
word in season,’ how good it is! I was almost ready to despair till
now.”

And that was the beginning of our saving. First, coffee was given up;
mother always drank tea, and so no one was inconvenienced by that but
father; then butter was dispensed with, and the cheapest meat and
vegetables in the market were selected, and mother decided that so many
things were unnecessary about our clothes, that Katie declared after a
while mother would think we could do without buttons on our dresses.
But my happy part of the day, during all this anxious time, was the
twilight when there was no work for me to do and I could run in and
sit by Miss Judith’s bright little fire and talk over things with her.
It was on one of these evenings, after Miss Judith’s usual greeting of,
“Well, Martha, how has the work come on to-day?” that I said, “Indeed,
Miss Judith, I wish I were not such a ‘Martha,’ and that I might
‘choose the better part,’ like Mary. But then, what can I do? Wouldn’t
it be wrong for me to throw things on mother when she isn’t strong, and
don’t you think our Saviour would think so, too? Then, besides, mother
would have to be a ‘Martha,’ for the work must be done. I am sure it is
all very puzzling to me, anyway.”

“I do not wonder that you say so, dear,” said Miss Judith, “for older
heads than yours have puzzled over the same question, and certain it
is that were it not for the ‘Marthas’ in the world the whole system
of society would come to a stand-still. But, then, Annie, we are told
that Martha was ‘_cumbered_ with serving’; she allowed her work, it
would seem, to absorb her faculties to the exclusion of other and more
important things; we need not do that, need we? Has not each one of us,
even the busiest among us, leisure sufficient to consecrate his work to
God in prayer, and ask His blessing upon it, and His help in it? Then,
my child,” she continued, “observe the words of our Saviour, ‘Mary
has chosen the better part’; that is better than Martha, but perhaps
there is a ‘better part,’ still, or the best part, in which labor and
worship are united, in which, while ‘not slothful in business,’ we are
still ‘fervent in spirit serving the Lord.’ This would seem to me the
best part, and surely the best example is that of the blessed Saviour
Himself, who ‘came not to be ministered to, but to minister,’ who
‘went about doing good,’ and ‘followed up days of toil with nights of
prayer.’ Yes, my dear, the necessity of serving is evidently laid upon
you, and you have not the choice of your part in life, but the manner
in which you act your part is within your power. Don’t forget, dear
child, that you ‘serve the Lord Christ,’ and ‘whatsoever you do, do it
heartily as unto Him.’ He has taken a journey into a far country now,
but he will come again to inspect your work; be faithful, dear Annie,
and watch and pray.”

That little talk with Miss Judith did me real good. My little talks
with her always do, and mother says that she is the greatest possible
comfort to her, for she shows her how useful one may be, even where one
has only sympathy and counsel to bestow; and father says that there is
a healing and strengthening power in her words, which is far better
than a gift of silver and gold, for it enables you to “rise up and
walk” under the burden of life.

The children certainly did bear the privations we underwent well, but
Katie said to me privately one night, “I never did want something
good to eat as badly in my life. I am real glad Thanksgiving Day is
so near.” But when the day before Thanksgiving came, and mother asked
if I should get anything different for dinner next day, father shook
his head with such a decided “no” that there was nothing more to be
said, but it was undoubtedly a change; we had never known what it was
not to have turkey and pudding then. I was most grieved, however, at
the thought of not having my usual present for Miss Judith. I had
always, on that day, carried her in her dinner, and on the waiter a
five dollar bill; but as I went up stairs at night, father slipped five
dollars into my hand, saying, “This is for Miss Judith, Annie. We must
not forget, in our efforts to retrench, the debt we owe our Heavenly
Father.”

That was enough to put me in a proper frame for the next day, even if
I had not already had sufficient to be thankful for. I had quite made
up my mind that mother was to go to church, and let me mind Harry, but
there was a great deal of persuading necessary to get her up to the
point. However, I succeeded at last, and after they were all gone and I
had washed up the breakfast things, Master Harry began to show symptoms
of sleepiness, so I tucked him in his little cradle, and began rocking
him to and fro, singing all the while one of Miss Judith’s favorite
hymns:—

    “One by one thy duties wait thee,
       With thy whole strength go to each,
     Let no future dreams elate thee,
       Learn thou first what these may teach.

     Do not look at life’s long sorrow,
       See how short each moment’s pain,
     God will help thee for the morrow,
       Every day begin again.”

Over and over I sang it, till at last the white lids closed, and I was
getting up softly to slip away, when ting-a-ling! went the door-bell,
with such a sound through the house that Harry stirred, then opened his
blue eyes to their fullest extent, and I was obliged to get him quiet
again before answering the bell. When at last I did go down, lo! not
a creature was to be seen: only a hamper-basket covered with a white
cloth with a paper pinned on top, on which was written: “For Mr. Gray;
from a friend.”

It was just as much as I could do to get the basket into the kitchen,
and then, oh! the good things that met my eyes. First of all, a turkey
ready dressed, then a roll of golden butter, then several jars of
sausage-meat and jelly, then a bunch of celery, and last a great iced
cake. This completed the contents, but no; as I lifted out the lower
cloth there lay a sealed envelope directed, as the basket had been,
to father. This I laid aside till his return, but what to do about
the other things was puzzling. They are clearly intended for father’s
Thanksgiving dinner, I thought, but unless the turkey is put to roast
right away it won’t be done in time. Shall I, or shall I not? I said to
myself. Then I remembered how feeble dear mother looked when she set
out; how she feared the services would be too much for her strength.
Yes, I said decidedly, by way of answering my doubts, a warm nourishing
dinner will be just what she needs, and so, without more ado, I set to
work. The baby (bless his little heart!) was real good, and let me, get
well “under way” before he waked up. There was no keeping the secret
of the dinner, however, when the front door was once entered, for the
savory odor of the roasting turkey told the tale at once, and the whole
party hurried into the kitchen to find out what it meant.

“O, father!” I said, when the exclamations over the first part of my
recital had sufficiently subsided to admit of my getting in a word,
“there was a letter for you in the basket, too.”

“This will give us the name of the donor,” said he, as he opened it.
But, no indeed, there was no name inside, only some notes neatly
folded. “Five, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five dollars,” said father,
counting them out on the table. “God be praised for all His mercies,
and God bless the giver!” said he, fervently, while mother turned away
to get Miss Judith’s dinner ready, and hide her tears, for poor mother
was actually crying.

“Take this, too, Annie,” said father, putting another five on the one
already lying on the waiter, when at last it was ready for me to take
in. Of course I had to stop and tell Miss Judith the wonderful news
about the basket, and when I got back again mother was putting the last
dish on the table; then, going to our places, we stood with bowed
heads while father said the grace I had always been accustomed to hear,
but which seemed to have gained new meaning and beauty,—

“Supply the wants of others, O Lord, and give us grateful hearts, for
Christ’s sake.”

We never knew the secret of that Thanksgiving basket, nor did we ever
inquire into it, but we all had a notion that Dr. Armstrong could have
thrown light upon the subject if he had chosen to.

                                                          G. S. W.

[Illustration: TRYING THEIR NEW KNIVES.]




  _Volume 15, Number 2._    Copyright, 1887, by D. LOTHROP COMPANY.
      _November 12, 1887._

THE PANSY.


[Illustration: THE BABY THAT’S NEVER CROSS.]




A SEVENFOLD TROUBLE.

(_Told by Seven People who Knew of it._)

BY GRACE LIVINGSTON.


MARGARET threw an old shawl over her head and went out the side door.
This had been a hard day. Weston had been very cross, and insisted upon
having her run a great many errands for him, some of them unnecessary.

This, too, was the first day of the fall term of school, and Margaret
had so wanted to be early at school to secure her old seat; for she had
heard that Helen Marcy was going to try to get it first. She had almost
forgotten her new resolves in the morning when her step-mother had told
her she would have to stay home to-day and help her.

As the tears came into Margaret’s eyes, Mrs. Moore had remarked: “Now’s
a good time to show your religion. A girl that’s joined the church
shouldn’t go around pouting all day because she’s asked to do a little
work; especially when she’s been off doing nothing at the seashore.”

It was all true, Margaret knew it, but it seemed so hateful of her to
say it. It had been so hard to bear.

After tea she walked down to the gate and stood staring out into the
darkness.

It was a very hard life, all just as black and unlovely as that dark
autumn evening.

She glanced back at the house. There was Johnnie bending over his
books, the gaslight above him brought him out in clear relief against
the dark room. Naughty Johnnie! How he had teased her every time he
came near her that day! Nobody cared for her much. She gazed down the
street. Here and there a light gleamed out. Across the way there was
a bright fire in the fireplace, and the family seemed to be having
a happy time, sitting around the table, sewing, reading, laughing
and talking. The little girl was sitting in her father’s lap. How
Margaret longed for such a pleasant evening in their home. She turned
involuntarily back to the house. Her father and Mr. Wakefield, the
minister, had gone out just after tea, and Mrs. Moore had gone to her
own room directly after the dishes were washed. The house was all dark,
save Johnnie’s one gas jet. It was just unbearable. No other girl in
the world had such a hard lot. It couldn’t possibly be any worse.

Yes, she really thought so, this poor silly little girl.

But she did not altogether forget her Heavenly Father. She remembered
presently, with a glad thrill of joy, that she belonged to the rich
King of all the earth. He could help her. She would ask Him.

Down went her head on the gate-post, and she told her Father in Heaven
all about it, and how she could not possibly stand it.

Then she raised her head with a confident feeling that now all would be
well, and fell to planning different ways in which her prayer might be
answered.

She didn’t exactly want her step-mother to die! She was rather shocked
at the thought. That was a very wrong thought for a Christian girl to
have.

Poor little Margaret! She thought she loved Jesus, and was trying with
all her might to serve him, but she still had to learn the command:
“Honor thy father and thy mother.”

Throwing that disagreeable thought aside, she went on. How _could_
it all be changed? Perhaps some rich, unheard-of relative of her
mother’s would die and leave a vast fortune to her as her mother’s only
daughter. Then what would she do? She would give her father enough so
that he wouldn’t have to work anymore. She would—yes, she would show
a very Christian spirit toward Mrs. Moore. She would re-furnish the
house, and hire several servants for her, and give her enough to buy
beautiful dresses. The boys should be sent to college, and she,—she
would go off to boarding-school and study as much as she liked, and
never have to stay home and wash dishes. She would have plenty of money
to give away. She would buy a great many flowers to give to poor sick
people. Her room should be beautifully furnished, and she would invite
all the poor girls in school there and give them nice times.

She was just treating those imaginary girls to chocolate creams and
marshmallow drops, when she heard her father’s step coming swiftly down
the street, and his voice say: “Margaret, you should not be out in this
chilly night air.” Then she turned and followed him into the house.
She had to give up her musings for a while and help Johnnie with his
arithmetic lesson, but she promised herself more castle-building when
she went to her own room, before she slept.

But presently her father called her. “Margaret,” he said, “I have a
letter here from your Aunt Cornelia. She wishes you to come and spend
the winter with her and attend school. Would you like to go?”

Margaret’s heart bounded with joy. Not alone with the pleasure of going
to Aunt Cornelia, but with a sort of triumphant feeling that her prayer
was answered, and that so soon. She resolved complacently that she
should always pray for everything. Poor child! She thought her faith
was very great.

It was quite dark in the room and Margaret could not see her father’s
face as he said this, but his voice was very kind. The door into the
hall was partly open, and the streak of light which came from it fell
upon the sofa, and showed the dim outlines of Mrs. Moore lying there
with her head bound up in a handkerchief. There was a faint odor of
camphor and vinegar pervading the room and Margaret’s conscience smote
her as she remembered her hard thoughts out by the gate. Perhaps Mrs.
Moore had been suffering all day from a sick headache, and that was why
she was so severe. The little girl’s heart softened and she resolved to
pray that the headache be cured, which, however, she forgot to do. You
must remember how full her heart was of excitement, and pity this poor
young Christian.

It was all settled that evening that she should go in a week, and she
went up to her room to write a letter overflowing with thanks to dear
Aunt Cornelia, and then went to bed to dream of the new life.

How easy it would be to be a Christian, living with Aunt Cornelia, she
thought, while she was dressing the next morning. God must have seen
how utterly impossible it was for her to serve him truly here in her
home, and so planned this for her. But her thoughts were interrupted
by a knock at her door, and Johnnie called out:

“Say, Mag, _she’s_ sick, an’ father’s gone for the doctor, an’ he said
you must come an’ get some breakfast, an’ West’s cross, an’ it rains
like sixty, an’ the wood’s all wet, an’ I can’t make the fire burn.
Can’t you come quick?”

Had Margaret known all the trials that were to come to her that day,
she would have stopped, in that little minute that stood between her
bright hopes of the night before, and the unknown future, to ask her
Heavenly Father for strength for what was to come. But she did not.
Perhaps it was some shadow of coming trouble that made her reach out
her hand and push the letter she had written into her upper bureau
drawer. Then she hastened down-stairs. Desolation reigned there.
Johnnie’s books and slate were scattered over the dining-room table,
just as he had left them the night before. Weston had added to the
confusion by spending his evening in cutting bits out of several
newspapers for his scrap-book, and little white snips were scattered
thick over the floor. Margaret remembered that the dining-room always
before looked nice when she came down in the morning. It _did_ make
a difference to have a mother around, even if she _was_ only a
step-mother.

Out in the kitchen Johnnie was rattling the stove and the smoke was
pouring out of every crevice.

It was late that morning before the new minister got his breakfast,
and the steak was smoky and the coffee muddy-looking, but he smiled
pleasantly at Margaret’s red face and told her that she had done well
for the first time.

While they were at breakfast, Mr. Moore came in with the doctor.

They went directly up-stairs, but soon came down again, the doctor
taking out his medicine-case and calling for glasses and water. Mr.
Moore looked anxious and worried. Margaret tried to hear the doctor’s
replies to her father’s troubled questions, but she only caught words
now and then:

“Inflammatory rheumatism.” “System completely run down.” “Rest for
several months.”

These were the bits of phrases that came to Margaret through the open
kitchen door, as she stood by the faucet drawing water for the doctor.
The rest of the sentences were drowned by the rush of the water, but
Margaret could easily imagine it, and her heart stood still.

She knew that this meant many things that the doctor did not say.

It meant that she could not go to Aunt Cornelia’s; that she must spend
the winter at home; that she must be the one who must constantly wait
on the sick woman. She could even now hear the irritable words which
she imagined her step-mother would use to her when she didn’t do
everything just right.

Then a great rebellion arose in her heart.

[Illustration: SHE HAD ALMOST FORGOTTEN HER RESOLVES.]

“God hasn’t answered my prayer at all,” she said to herself, and the
great disappointment made her hand shake as she set the water-pitcher
down before the doctor.

Mr. Moore didn’t think his little girl had heard the doctor’s words,
and he looked after her with a troubled sigh as she went back to the
kitchen. How should he tell her? Would she storm and cry as she had
been wont to do when her will was crossed? He decided that he would not
tell her that day.

The breakfast dishes washed, Johnnie at school, and her father
up-stairs, Margaret betook herself to the kitchen to wail out her
sorrow and pity herself. She dared not go to her own room, lest she
should be heard. Rebellion was in her soul, and the more she cried the
more she pitied herself and cried again. Mr. Wakefield, coming to the
kitchen to ask for some warm water, found Margaret with her arms on
the table, and her head on her arms, sobbing great angry, disappointed
sobs. He stopped in dismay.

“Why, Margaret, what is the matter? Is there anything I can do for you?”

“No, there isn’t! God hasn’t answered my prayer! You said he would! Now
I’ve got to stay at home and wait on _her_! I don’t believe he heard me
at all!”

Margaret fairly screamed this out. She had worked herself into such a
state that she scarcely knew what she was saying. Was this the gentle,
humble Christian he had received into the church but two days before?
This thought passed through the minister’s mind, but he was too wise to
express it to the excited little girl. He only asked quietly:

“Margaret, does your father always say ‘yes’ to you when you ask for
something?”

“Why, no; of course not!” she said, in surprise.

“And suppose you should ask for something, and he should say No, would
you come and tell me that your father would not answer you?”

She did not answer this time, and Mr. Wakefield went on:

“Suppose your father knows that what you ask would be very hurtful to
you, would you think him cruel to refuse you?”

“But this isn’t hurtful! It’s best for me! God wants me to be a
Christian, and I never can be one in this house!” she burst out.

“Margaret, which do you think knows best, you who know so little, or
God who made you, and who sees all things that ever have happened or
ever will happen in your life? My little friend, I am afraid you didn’t
pray in the right spirit,”—

“O, yes, I did!” she interrupted eagerly. “I believed. I thought of
course He would give it to me.”

“But believing is not the only thing. You forgot to put one little
sentence in, ‘Thy will be done.’ If you had put it in words your prayer
would sound something like this: ‘Our Father, who art in heaven,
hallowed be Thy name, Thy kingdom come, Margaret Moore’s will be
done,’”—

At this Margaret couldn’t help smiling through her tears.

“Your kind Heavenly Father didn’t give you just what you asked for,
because he saw that it would not be best for you. Perhaps he saw that
his servant must learn patiently to serve him at home, among trials,
before she would ever make the right kind of servant out in the world.
He will answer your prayer in some other way than the one you had
planned, Margaret. He loves you a great deal better than you love
yourself. Can’t you trust him?”

And then the minister went away without his hot water. Went back to his
room to pray for the poor little troubled disciple down-stairs. And
Margaret sat and thought. She saw now just how foolish and wicked she
had been. She had a long struggle with her rebellious heart, kneeling
on the bare floor with her head on the kitchen table, but she conquered
at last, and the peace of God filled her heart. She was resolved now
to give up her own way and try to do God’s way. “But, dear Jesus,” she
prayed, “I’ll have to be helped a great deal, for I can’t do it alone,
and I know I shall cry if they say much about Aunt Cornelia.”

Margaret had found the right way to do all she could herself and trust
in Jesus for the rest, and to give up her life, her will, her whole
self into his keeping.

But she remembered that she had other duties and that her father might
be down-stairs at any moment, so she hastened to her room to wash away
the traces of tears.

Half-way down the stairs she paused. “Would not it please Jesus if she
were to knock at mother’s door and ask if there was anything she could
do?”

She retraced her steps softly and gave a very gentle knock. Her father
came from the darkened room, his face so careworn that it almost
startled her. “Father, please don’t look so worried. Everything will be
all right. I can keep house,” she said.

Her father regarded her with a tender, sorrowful look.

“Does my little girl know that she cannot go away this winter?”

“Yes, sir; I know it. Never mind that. It’s all right, father.”

Mr. Moore was so amazed and pleased at this new character exhibited by
his daughter that he scarcely knew what to say.

“I am very sorry it is so, Margaret, but your mother is very sick. She
has been under a great strain this summer. You will have to wait on her
and be a general help. I would hire some one else to do it if I could
afford it, but I cannot. Your mother’s sister, Amelia, who has been
living in Brierly with her brother, will come, I think, and keep house,
and then the minister need not go away, for we need all the money we
can get now to pay the doctor’s bills.”

[Illustration: THERE SAT JOHNNIE.]

Margaret’s face fell.

“Must we have her? Isn’t there some one else we can have?” she said,
lowering her voice.

“Not without paying for it,” said her father, sadly.

“Couldn’t I do the work?” she asked.

“No, Margaret; you will have all you can do to wait on your mother,
and,” he added, “I am afraid you cannot even go to school here at
home,—for a time, at least. I am sorry, but I don’t see any other way
out just now.”

Margaret felt very much like bursting into tears again, but a glance at
her father’s worn face changed her feelings.

“Never mind, father, I’ll do all I can, and be as good as I can.” And
she wound her arms around her father’s neck and kissed him.

If she only could have known how much that kiss comforted her father.
He went back into the darkened room with a lightened heart and a
feeling that there must be something in religion, for it had changed
Margaret wonderfully.

Margaret snatched the first hour that came to her to write a letter
to Aunt Cornelia, telling her how impossible it was for her to come
to her, and how very sorry she was, and soon there came a long,
sympathetic, helpful answer, and with it a little book bound in green
and silver. “To help you when you feel discouraged,” the good auntie
wrote.

On the first page Margaret opened, her eyes met these words:

    “God’s will is like a cliff of stone,
       My will is like the sea.
     Each murmuring thought is only thrown
       Tenderly back to me.

     God’s will and mine are one this day,
       And ever more shall be,
     And there’s a calm in life’s tossed bay,
       And the waves sleep quietly.”

And they sang a little tune in her heart as she thought of all she must
bear that long winter.


THE FIRST LOAD.

IT was a warm, sunny Sunday morning, and consequently Robbie Ellsworth
was allowed to go to church. This was quite a luxury to him, because he
had but recently recovered from the measles, and his mother was rather
afraid to have him go.

The notices were all given out, at least so the people thought,
when the minister announced that there would be a meeting of the
congregation the next day, to raise money for a new church. That
building, they saw, was altogether too small, and he did hope they
would get a new one started very soon, as a lot was donated in a fine
location.

Then came the sermon. It was about little things. Robbie listened
attentively, as the minister told how many great things had been
started and helped by little boys and girls, and by people with little
money or talent.

At the dinner table Robbie’s father remarked, “How anxious Dr. Sullivan
is for a new church! But he won’t get it—not very soon, anyway. The
people don’t care enough about it, though I’m sure they need one badly.”

“Dear me!” thought Robbie to himself, “I do wish Dr. Sullivan could get
the new church. I’m sure he ought to have it if he wants it.”

“He wants a brick one,” Mr. Ellsworth continued, “but in my opinion a
frame building would do this time. Brick costs too much.”

“I wish he could have a brick church,” thought Robbie. “It would be so
much nicer.”

Then he went to thinking about what Dr. Sullivan said in his sermon,
and pretty soon he began to wonder if he couldn’t help with the new
church. All the afternoon he thought about it, and finally a plan came
into his little mind, which he thought of so much that he could hardly
sleep that night. But he didn’t want anybody to know anything about it,
so he went to sleep as fast as he could.

Fortunately for his plans, Monday was as pleasant as Sunday, and about
ten o’clock Robbie went to Mrs. Ellsworth.

“Mamma, I want to go take a walk,” he said.

“Why, Robbie dear, you would get lost.”

“But I only want to go around to Uncle Will’s,” pleaded the little
fellow.

Now Uncle Will was a doctor, a great favorite with his little nephew,
and he lived only around the corner, in the new house which he had just
built.

“I think you may go, then,” said Mrs. Ellsworth, “as you don’t have to
cross the street to get there. I am going down to papa’s office, and
will tell him to stop for you when he comes home.”

“No, mamma,” said Robbie, “I’d rather not. I have a very much reason
for wanting to come home alone.”

That was his way of saying he had a very good, and, in his eyes,
important reason, which he didn’t want to give. So his mother agreed,
kissed him good-by, and he started out, first getting his little green
wheelbarrow from the hall closet.

He trudged along down one street, up another, till he stopped on the
stone steps of “Uncle Will’s house,” and gave the bell such a pull as
only a boy of about Robbie’s size knows how.

Aunt Flora greeted her small visitor very warmly, laughing at his
wheelbarrow, but he pushed right by her, and trudged into Uncle Will’s
office, pushing his wheelbarrow before him. Uncle Will was engaged in
discussing the cholera germ with a brother physician, but he turned and
welcomed his nephew cheerily:

“Well, my man! What can I do for you to-day? Will you cart a
wheelbarrow of books around to the library for me?”

“Mamma wouldn’t let me,” said Robbie. “I came to see if you would let
me have one wheelbarrowful of the bricks that were left over—out in the
back yard.”

“Certainly,” said Uncle Will. “You can go right out and get them.”

So Robbie turned again, too eager to even thank his uncle, pushed his
wheelbarrow through the dining-room, and was soon taking down bricks
from the pile by the back stoop.

His barrow didn’t hold but about a half-dozen, and soon Irish Mary was
lifting it up the steps, and he arrived again before his uncle’s door.

“Are they my very own, Uncle Will,” he asked, as that gentleman turned
to look at his load, “to use just as I want to?”

“Your very own,” said the doctor, “to do what you please with. If you
wish, you may throw them in the cistern. But what are they for?”

“I would rather not tell, Uncle Will.”

“Very well, sir. Success to your project, whatever it is.”

Down the steps bumped the wheelbarrow, with its owner behind, and
down the street they went again, though this time on the other side
of the block. There were not many pedestrians on the street, but the
few Robbie met smiled at him and his load of bricks. He looked at all
the houses attentively, and finally mounted the steps of one with
difficulty, all the time afraid his bricks would fall out, and rang the
bell a little more gently than he had at his uncle’s.

The Rev. Dr. Sullivan came to the door. He knew Robbie. “Good-morning,
young man!” he said. “What can I do for you?”

“Nothing,” said Robbie. “I’ve brought you the first load of bricks for
the new church.”

“The new church!” said the doctor.

“Yes, sir. You said yesterday you wanted one, and papa said you wanted
a brick one. So I’ve brought the first load. They’re my very own, sir,
to use just as I want to.”

“Well, well!” said Dr. Sullivan, “I am very much obliged to you,” and
Robbie thought his voice sounded almost as his did when he had the
croup. Moreover, he took out his handkerchief and rubbed his eyes. Then
he took the wheelbarrow in his arms, and having deposited the contents
in his backyard, returned it to the owner. “The bricks shall be used,
young man,” he said, “every one of them, for the new church. Thank you
very much for your help.”

Then Robbie returned home, jubilant at having been able to help his
minister.

As for the minister, he took a paper, and went out. The first man he
met was Mr. Lawrence, the wealthiest person in his church.

“Mr. Lawrence,” he said, “we have started, and the first load of bricks
for the new church has arrived.”

“Indeed!” said Mr. Lawrence, and after a little more talk he put down
his name for quite a sum of money. Dr. Sullivan went on telling every
one that the first load of bricks had arrived, and it was astonishing
how encouraging those bricks were! When the congregation met that
afternoon, their pastor announced that some hundred dollars had been
raised for the church, and that the first load of bricks had come.

Of course it was a good while before the church was really built, for
there were architects and masons and carpenters to be consulted; but it
was really built, and it was not till then that the minister told who
had furnished “the first load of bricks,” and how he really started the
whole thing.

And the six bricks that Robbie had brought in his little wheelbarrow
were built into the wall of the church, and everybody thanked him for
his part of the work.

Now the best thing about this story is that it is all true. The
minister’s name may not have been Dr. Sullivan, and the boy’s name may
not have been Robbie Ellsworth, and his wheelbarrow may not have been
green, but it brought the bricks that are in the “Brick Church,” as it
is called, of one of the largest cities in the Eastern States.

                                                     PARANETE.

[Illustration: NOVEMBER WOODS.]




  _Volume 15, Number 3._    Copyright, 1887, by D. LOTHROP COMPANY.
      _November 19, 1887._

THE PANSY.


[Illustration]

A WORLD OF LITTLE PEOPLE.

BY PARANETE.

FROM the further corner of the fence, one end fastened to a bush near
by, hung a spider’s silken web, regular as if made on geometrical
principles. In the centre of this sat a good-sized spider, the
proprietress, who had just finished devouring the most of an unwary
fly, whose bloodless remains lay at her side. Up to the spider came two
ants—Zed and Zoo.

“Excuse me,” said the spider, looking at them suspiciously, “for having
any doubts as to the safety of making your acquaintance. But you have
just been communicating with my greatest enemy, the wasp, and have been
watching with heartless interest the destruction of one of my family. I
am sure I hope you have no personal designs upon my life. The wasp is
such a very daring foe, that I fear you, even though you are so small.”

“I assure you,” replied Zed, “that our interest in the wasp’s doings
was wholly due to ignorance, and we are no friends of hers, nor have we
any design against you.”

“Very well,” replied the spider, whose name was Luxz, “I am very
glad. I feel in a pretty good humor this morning, having just finished
a most delicious fly. I say finished, or I would offer you some. All
spiders like flies. I had a most unpleasant disappointment yesterday.
I was over on the window-sill of the house yonder, and saw a large fly
resting on a piece of paper. Of course I sprang after him, but there
was no fly there! I walked over and over him, too! One of my neighbors
suggests that it was a picture; as if an intelligent spider couldn’t
tell the difference between a picture and a fly!”

The two ants nodded their assent to this highly probable statement.

“You spin a great deal, I suppose?” asked Zoo.

“O, yes!” said Luxz; “I am as busy as can be. I can spin little fine
threads, and coarser ones, and dance and swing all around on them. But
of course the most of my time is occupied with work. It is a good deal
of work to make a web, although you might not think so. There were some
boys coming past here to school as I had just finished a nice web,
quite a while ago, and they knocked it all down. I built another, then
another, but every time those wicked creatures would destroy it, and
then laugh at my dismay. Finally my pockets were as empty as could be,
and I was all out of silk, so I had to go and kill another spider, and
occupy her web for a time. But this I built myself.”

“You catch a good many flies?”

“Yes, indeed. They are not very sagacious animals, though sometimes
I will find one that I can’t entice into my web after the greatest
endeavors. We are all very cunning, but we have to look out for some
of the birds. A neighbor of mine was swinging one morning, as fine as
could be, and a swallow came along, that had his nest up under the
eaves, and—well, that was the last of her. The wasps, as I have already
mentioned, are very bad. If one of them gets caught in our webs, we
unfasten the threads as quickly as we can, and let her go, fearing that
if we don’t, we shall get the worst of it.

“Our threads are very convenient,” Luxz continued, after a moment’s
pause, “for we can let one end of them float out, and they stick to
anything they touch, making a thoroughfare for us. I remember once
those same boys put me on a chip in a large tub of water, and again
laughed at my discomfiture. But I was equal to the emergency, and had
soon spun out a thread the outer end of which a draught of air floated
to the side of the tub, and when my tormentors were not looking, I
escaped along it. We can fasten the end of our thread to the top of
anything, and let ourselves down by spinning out more, or rise by
pulling it in.”

“Have you any children?” asked Zed.

“O, yes!” replied Luxz, “I have some just hatching. As you go around
the corner of that board you can see the nest—all fuzzy, like cotton. A
few are just crawling out. They are very small as yet.”

Then the ants bade the spider good-day, and went down the fence,
stopping as they passed it to see the nest, where the little wee
spiders were just taking their first few steps among the delicate filmy
threads surrounding their eggs. How many there were!

A fly was the next insect which absorbed the attention of our
travellers, as he was poised on a grease-spot at the edge of a board
along which they were walking. It was just a common house-fly, but
as they were not very familiar to Zed and Zoo, he was an object
of as great interest to them as any which they had met in their
peregrinations.

“Good-morning,” he buzzed, “I am searching for something to eat. I have
just been driven out of the house yonder, by some immense people with
great cloths in their hands. They have put up frames in the windows
with wire ropes in them, and I can’t get into that well-filled table.
There is a man there with a bald head, too,—just the place for an
enterprising fly. But these people do hate us!”

“Too bad,” said Zed sympathetically; “but if you lazy flies would
make homes of your own, as ants do, and not go about where you’re not
wanted, you and others would be far more contented.”

“Well,” said the fly thoughtfully, “I’m sure I don’t see why we don’t.
Possibly no fly ever thought of it. It doesn’t seem to be intended
that we should. I never could work out in the hot sun the way you do.
The people don’t molest very often,—not as much as they’d like to; we
have too sharp eyes, and too many of them. We each have hundreds and
hundreds of little eyes, and every one moves and looks in a different
way. It’s rather difficult to come up behind us, as the elephant did.”

“How was that?” asked Zoo.

“Don’t you know?

    “‘A grasshopper sat on a sweet-potato vine,
     Sweet-potato vine, sweet-potato vine,
     A great big elephant came up behind,
     And knocked him off that sweet-potato vine.’

“I’m not sure about the story; it’s just possible that it may be taken
from the New York paper, but, anyway, we believe it, and often laugh at
the grasshopper.”

“What do you eat?” asked Zed.

“Anything I find, almost. Flies are not at all particular. We can enjoy
anything that any one does. Our mouths are hollow tubes, through which
we suck whatever we wish to eat. This is a very convenient way.”

“You have enemies,” remarked Zoo. “We have just been calling on a
spider who is longing for a taste of some of you.”

“You don’t say so!” cried the fly. “She is not very near here, is
she? Those spider-webs are the great torment of our lives. I have had
several friends caught and eaten by the spiders. The way they wind
their fine, yet strong threads about one, is something remarkable. I
know a pretty good verse about them, too:

    “‘The spider wears a plain brown dress,
        And she’s a steady spinner;
          To see her, quiet as a mouse,
          Going about her silver house,
      You’d never, never, never guess
        The way she gets her dinner.’

That’s real pathetic, isn’t it, now?”

“Very,” answered Zed and Zoo, together.

“I met a Southern fly once,” continued the talkative fly, “and they
have more enemies down there than we do in the North. Take the lizards
and chameleons, for instance—”

“Oh! we know about them,” cried the little ants.

“And then the walking-sticks,” continued the fly, not pausing at the
interruption, but rather looking severely at his visitors; “now, a man
up here couldn’t hit on one of us with a walking-stick if he tried
all day. But it’s quite different down there! A walking-stick is not a
stick by the aid of which people walk, but a walking-stick, that is, a
stick that walks. It is a very strange insect, and is so exactly like
the broken twig of a tree, with the little branches and all, that the
most sagacious person can’t tell them apart, without seeing them walk.
They are called ‘devil’s walking-sticks’ by some, and we flies think it
very appropriate, for they are dreadful for us—that is, for Southern
flies. The people will put a walking-stick in a room full of flies, and
in a short time he will have killed them all! Think how dreadful!”

“Do you know any more poetry?” asked Zed, who was rather of a literary
disposition.

“Well, now, I do know a real cute little song about a fly, written by
some man or other, who evidently had a baby. I will sing it for you.”

And the fly buzzed:

    “Baby bye, here’s a fly:
    Let us watch him, you and I.
    How he crawls up the walls,
    Yet he never falls!

    Don’t you think, with six such legs,
    You and I could walk on eggs?
    There he goes, on his toes,
    Tickling baby’s nose.

    Spots of red dot his head;
    Rainbows on his back are spread;
    He is laced ’round his waist:
    I admire his taste!

    I can tell you, if you choose,
    Where to look to find his shoes:
    Three small pairs, made of hairs;
    These he always wears.

    But, though tight his clothes are made,
    He will lose them, I’m afraid,
    If to-night he gets sight
    Of the candle-light.

    In the sun webs are spun:
    What if he gets into one!
    —That small speck is his neck;
    See him nod and beck!

    Tongues to talk have you and I:
    God has given the little fly
    No such things, so he sings
    With his buzzing wings.”




THE POPLAR ST. PANSY SOCIETY.

BY C. M. L.


CHAPTER I.

THE Poplar Street Pansy Society began with a large membership and every
other flattering prospect. The leaders were wide awake, bright boys and
girls who meant success, come what might. Everything went on finely for
the first year. Meetings were held regularly; the attendance included
nearly all the members every time, in bad weather as well as good, and
no matter what invitations were given elsewhere to parties or rides.
The members, with rare exceptions, were thoroughly loyal to their
society.

[Illustration: JENNIE.]

This became so well known that, at length, when entertainments were
about to be given at the same time of the society meetings its members
were passed by when the lists of invitations were being made out, for
it was commonly said you might as well invite the man in the moon as
one of the Poplar Street Society; that they would not leave that dear
society to see the Emperor of China pass through the city. Some were
cruel enough to say that these Pansies just worshiped their society.

In spite of all the outside parties and sneers the society kept right
on its way. At last it grew to be such a power, so many of the young
folks had joined it, that ladies, wishing a company of the youth at
their homes, were compelled to consult the convenience of the Poplar
Street Pansy Society.

If there was to be a meeting of the society at a certain time,
particularly if it was to be a public one, everything must needs yield
to it. Thither the fathers and mothers would go, no matter what other
attractions offered.

Thus this Poplar Street Society came to be known as the popular society.

But the Roman Empire had its decline and fall. Why should not this
society? Certain boys and girls had come in who cared more for place
than for progress. They wanted to be highly thought of and to receive
the offices. On one occasion four of them insisted upon being chosen
president. Of course three of the four were offended and declared they
would withdraw.

Some others said they must be appointed on the programme committee and
be allowed to manage things generally or they would establish a rival
society. A few insisted that the time had now come for a change; that
the old programme of singing, recitations, games, etc., was poky; that
a little dancing and card-playing ought to be allowed a part of the
time.

To this it was answered that the Poplar Street Pansy Society was
established for mental and moral growth and not for a dancing-school
or card-party; that those who must have such things could find them
elsewhere.

Thus a division came. Two parties arose. The matter was discussed
in the schoolroom and three times daily in forty or more different
dining-rooms. Many bitter things were said. The meetings would
sometimes break up in confusion. Then some parents interfered by
refusing to allow their children to attend. The dance and card portion
withdrew. Several who wanted the offices or wished to have the most to
say, came no more. Some had moved out of the city.

So there came a time when a very few attended the meeting. The many
empty seats filled the few present with sadness. Then came a motion to
dissolve the society; it was seconded, put and lost by one vote only.
Then it was resolved to appoint a committee who should confer with some
wise ones and see what could be done and report at the next meeting,
or, if they thought best, adjourn the society till better times.

The committee consisted of two boys and one girl, this girl being the
very one whose perseverance had brought the society into being and held
it together at times when it seemed ready to go to pieces.

She invited her two friends to meet at her father’s house to see what
was best to be done. Meanwhile she had done a deal of thinking for
herself and had carried the matter to her mother for guidance.

Things looked dark enough for her dear society. Her mother even doubted
if anything could be done while there was such an opposition, and the
best she could say was to let matters rest for the present, till the
dancers and others had had their round of fun.

This brave girl had seen too much good in the society, and hungered for
more too deeply to easily give it up.

She had a great Friend to whom all her troubles were carried. She took
this one to Him.

The committee came together,—two doubting boys and one true girl,—full
of faith and purpose to stand by the society. The boys had settled the
matter in their minds to let the society die as things then stood;
that further effort would but result in failure, and make them a
laughing-stock,—to be laughed at was not for a moment to be thought
of,—unless there should be some most favorable turn of affairs.

Thus the conference opened, two to one against the life of the P. S. P.
S., as the society was sometimes called.

“I’m glad you’ve come,” began our little heroine to the two, after they
were seated and the moment had come for business. “These have been
pretty dark days for me; I’ve been on the point of crying nearly all
the time.”

“So have we,” came from the boys, “but what’s the use crying for spilt
milk! The society’s as good as dead. Every one we’ve met says so, and
now all that’s left for us is just to bury it respectably, and try
something else. Guess you’ve come to that conclusion, too, haven’t you?”

“No; not I,” was the firm answer. “Our society began with one member
and here we have three to build it up on again. I’m sure three are more
than one.”

“Don’t know how you make three. You can’t count upon us. We see no
chance now, and are ready to vote to end the P. S. P. S.”

“I am not ready.”

“But we are two to your one, and you know majorities rule.”

“And you, who have stood by the society so long, are surely not going
to desert it when it needs you most?”

“Nothing left to desert. You see, Jennie, the thing is gone up.”

And Jennie’s answer was a look of pain. There was silence, then a sigh
and audible sob heard in the next room, where were Jennie’s father and
Uncle John. Uncle John had come from a distant town for a visit of
some weeks. He was a lover of the boys and girls, and when he knew the
object of the meeting of the committee was to discuss the life or death
of the Poplar Street Pansy Society, and that Jennie’s heart was bound
up in that society, he immediately set himself, without telling any
one, to devise ways and means to come to Jennie’s rescue.

So he had caught every word from the little committee folks in the
next room, and when the crisis came and poor Jennie was about to be
out-voted, he spoke out:

“Jennie?”

“That’s my Uncle John. I wonder if he’s heard all we’ve said,” and
Jennie’s voice was in a whisper, and quickly her handkerchief stole to
her eye to brush away the tears that had been starting. He spoke again:

“Jennie?”

“Sir?”

“Cannot I counsel with your committee?”

“O, yes, Uncle John, do, do!” and with the words the door flew open,
and Uncle John was introduced to the two boys.

After a few cheery remarks, the committee was asked not to take any
action just then, but to call a meeting and talk the matter over once
more, with as many present as could be induced to attend, Uncle John
asking permission to be present and make any suggestion that might
occur to him, remarking, with an assuring nod of his head, that the
Poplar Street Pansy Society need not and should not die yet if the
girls and boys would let him keep it alive.

The committee looked at each other surprised; the two boys somewhat
ashamed of their part of the conference, Jennie ready to cry for joy.

That night at her bedside she said: “I thank thee, dear Lord, for
hearing me in my trouble. I thank thee for sending Uncle John just at
the right time.”

The boys went home in silence; but the brave girl dreamed of a good
time coming.

==========

    NOVEMBER, you’re almost too dull,
    And cold and damp and drear;
    The turkeys say
    Thanksgiving Day
    They dread through all the year.
                                —_Selected._


GAS.

AFTER a time wood became scarce. In some parts of the country it
could hardly be had for love or money. Then what? Ah! the Lord always
provides, as he did the lamb in place of the lad Isaac, you remember.
Some men were looking about one day among the hills of Pennsylvania,
and they found a piece of a—wood house, sticking out of the ground with
a bit of wood in it, though it looked no more like wood than a stone
painted black does. But it shone so brightly that somehow they took it
home and somehow, I can’t just say how, they got it to burn. Then they
went back to the “wood house” and began to dig, and the more they dug
the larger the wood house grew, until they could find no limits to it.
Then many of the neighbors went at it with pickaxes and spades; then
nearly all the people of the country—and now how many think you are
getting wood there? A hundred? Ten thousand? Guess again. And can you
guess what sort of wood it is; do you know of any one that knows how
many cords of wood are in this house, and who piled it away there, and
when?

It does seem as though an army of children would have starved or frozen
to death but for that fuel; found just at the right time, you see.

But then, the great and loving Heavenly Father had such a wonderful
Christmas present to surprise the world with, something better and
cheaper than this black wood.

Some say there is no God to take care of the poor working men and
women, and they think one of the ways of doing it is by burning up
the property of the rich, by strikes, and such things. Meanwhile the
blessed God, whom these persons deny, often by one little word or act,
opens up millions and millions of treasures for the poor workers, and
alas! so many never thank him for it. “What was the treasure?”

I was just going to tell you. Another big wood house bigger than all
the barns, meeting-houses, opera-houses and mills in your country!

The logs must be chopped and hauled; the coal must be mined and carried
on the cars, but this new fuel just _comes_, and comes faster than
the fastest train you ever heard of! All that is necessary is to bore
into the earth in certain places from one hundred to fifteen hundred
feet and place an iron tube into the hole, long enough to reach
your—fireplace, and touch a match to the open end of the tube; then
look out for one of the hottest fires you ever warmed your fingers at.
But be careful lest a lot of this new wood gets out into your room and
away goes the top of your house and—yourself with it. However, I guess
your pa will see that a first-rate plumber puts in the fixtures. After
that, no danger need be feared from an explosion.

Right in the hearth will come the little flames, by turning some screws
and touching a match. There are broken pieces of stone lying in the
fireplace. These will become hot, from red to white. Then you’d better
not handle them.

Now bring your cold fingers and feet, or go to the kitchen stove and
see how beautifully your dinner is being cooked by this wonderful wood.

There it is, too, heating all the stores, banks, schools, churches, and
everything that will give it a chance to come through the iron tube.
Now what say you? I guess this is _gas_.

Yes; I knew you’d ask that: Who found it first, and what does it cost,
and how does it look and smell, and when will it be all used up, and
how far will it travel? However, if I should tell you all I know about
it, that would save you the trouble of finding out yourself, one of the
very best things for you, trouble besides the joy of finding out some
things without bothering any one to tell. Now see if you can answer
those questions yourself. This, I will say: that Pittsburgh, Penn.,
knows a great deal about this gas. Ask it.

                                                       UNCLE C.


INTRODUCTIONS.

CHARLIE HOLLAND, at your service. A well-dressed, well-mannered,
pleasant-faced boy. You feel sure you would like him? Everybody who
sees him feels just so.

“His mother must be proud of him,” is a sentence often on people’s
lips. Look at him now, as he lifts his hat politely, in answer to a
call from an open window.

“Charlie,” says the voice, “I wonder if I could get you to mail this
letter for me? Are you going near the post-office?”

“Near enough to be able to serve you, Mrs. Hampstead,” says the polite
voice. “I will do it with pleasure.”

“I shall be very much obliged, Charlie, but I wouldn’t want to make you
late at school on that account.”

“Oh! no danger at all, Mrs. Hampstead. It will not take two minutes to
dash around the corner to the office.” And, as he receives the letter,
his hat is again lifted politely.

“What a perfect little gentleman Charlie Holland is,” says Mrs.
Hampstead to her sister, as the window closes. “Always so obliging; he
acts as though it was a pleasure to him to do a kindness.”

Bend lower and let me whisper a secret in your ear: it is not five
minutes since that boy’s mother said to him: “Charlie, can’t you run
upstairs and get that letter on my bureau and mail it for me?” And
Charlie, with three wrinkles on his forehead, and a pucker on each side
of his mouth, said: “O, mamma! I don’t see how I can! I’m late now; and
the office is half a block out of my way.”

And the mother said, well then he needn’t mind, for she didn’t want him
to be late at school. So he didn’t mind, but left the letter on the
bureau, and went briskly on his way until stopped by Mrs. Hampstead.

What was the matter with Charlie Holland? Was he an untruthful boy? He
did not mean to be. He prided himself on his strict honesty.

It _was_ growing late, and he felt in a hurry, and he hated to go
upstairs. Of course it would not do to refuse Mrs. Hampstead, and by
making an extra rush, he could get to school in time; but the other
lady was only his mother. Her letter could wait.

“Only his mother!” Didn’t Charlie Holland love his mother, then?

You ask him, with a hint of doubt about it in your voice, and see how
his eyes will flash, and how proudly he will toss back his handsome
head and say:

“I guess I _do_ love my mother! She’s the grandest mother a boy ever
had.”

Oh! I didn’t promise to explain Charlie’s conduct to you; I am only
introducing him; you are to study for yourselves. Do you know any boy
like him?

                                                         PANSY.

[Illustration: LOST.]




  _Volume 15, Number 4._    Copyright, 1887, by D. LOTHROP COMPANY.
      _November 26, 1887._

THE PANSY.


[Illustration: A LARGE FAMILY.]


THE OLD BRIMMER PLACE.

BY MARGARET SIDNEY.

CHAPTER I.

THE air was clear and fresh; a slight fall of snow just conveniently
stopping at the point of becoming higher than the overshoes of the
pedestrians, lay on the ground. It was an early fall, as the old
farmers say when there is snow at Thanksgiving, and every sign gave
promise of winter shutting in rapidly.

The old gray house set back from Cherryfield high road, had its chimney
smoking by break of day, for Mother Brimmer tied on her baking apron as
soon as she had told Rosalie how to prepare the simple breakfast “to
hurry forward those pies,” as she said.

“All that can be done to-day, Rosy,” she observed, in the midst of
the bustle that now ensued, “is clear gain toward to-morrow. Always
remember that, child; don’t leave a lot of odds and ends to do when
you’re going to have company, thinking you’ll have time. You never do;
and the last minute catches you before you know it.”

“It’s such fun,” hummed the one girl of the family, stirring the
cornmeal mush in the kettle vigorously, “to have company. I don’t ever
remember having any before.”

“You forget the parson coming to tea,” said Mrs. Brimmer, bringing out
her pie-plates from the pantry. “Let me see; I shall make four mince
ones.”

“He isn’t company!” cried Rosy. “Mr. Higginson isn’t; I ain’t a bit
afraid of him.”

“No more you should be,” exclaimed Mrs. Brimmer, setting down her
pie-plates; “and then again, child, there isn’t any call to be afraid
of any one, so long as you haven’t been doing anything wrong.”

“But it scares me to think something don’t look nice, or I don’t know
how to do things,” said Rosy.

“Well, that’s very silly,” observed Mrs. Brimmer, going for her
pastry-board; “do the best you can, Rosy, and then let it go.”

Rosy turned her little anxious face toward her mother, and smiled.
“Anyway, this company is to be nice, and the things will be nice, too,
I guess, ma.”

“We’ll try to make ’em so,” declared her mother, energetically stirring
up her mince-meat in the stone jar.

“What will Miss Clorinda say to see the goose that I’m going to roast
all myself?” cried Rosy, deserting her mush-kettle, to go over with
this important question to the baking-table. “Say, ma?”

“I’m sure I don’t know!” cried Mrs. Brimmer, with pride. “She’ll say,
‘Was there ever such a goose!’ like as not, though, Rosy.”

“Do you suppose she really will!” cried the girl in delight, the color
coming into her cheeks. When she looked like this, the boys, her
brothers Jack and Cornelius, always called her “Wild Rose,” and it was
their secret delight to summon the lovely bloom in as many startling
ways as they could.

“But you’d better fly back to that mush,” said Mother Brimmer
presently, “and get breakfast as you’d ought to, and not look ahead to
to-morrow. That’ll take care of itself.”

“So it will!” cried Rosy merrily.

Jack and Cornelius, now hurrying in to breakfast, the small
maid-of-all-work had to desert her delightful anticipations of
to-morrow’s good times and fly to the work in hand. It was presently on
the table—the steaming dish of mush, the baked potatoes, and the large
pitcher of milk, and Mother Brimmer being summoned from her work, wiped
her hands, took off her apron, and joined the others at their simple
meal.

For the good woman, although her children were “in business and doing
for themselves,” as she proudly expressed it, observed the same
frugality as when times were hard and the future looked dark. “We won’t
give up our plain breakfasts; they’ve always done us good, and we don’t
need any other food,” she would say when the boys urged her to have a
“bit of meat for herself, at least.”

“No, no; I don’t want it,” she said, “mother’s tough and hearty. As
long as I’ve such perfect health, you needn’t worry, children.”

So the money that would have gone into the butcher’s till for the
beefsteak or mutton chop, went instead into the bank to Brimmer
Brothers and Company’s credit.

And the economy observed in the matter of breakfasts went into all
the other details of daily life. The only thing in which the family
indulged themselves was in the matter of books and magazines; and
occasionally Mrs. Brimmer would send the young people off of an evening
to a good lecture or concert in the Town Hall, or she would go with
some of them, one always being obliged to remain with Roly Poly, who
was called “the baby,” although rejoicing in the dignity of five years.

The business conducted by Brimmer Brothers and Company was a grocery
and general trade carried on in a little red building on their grounds,
that had formerly been an old tool-house, in which the farmer who then
lived in the big gray house mended up his farming utensils, and kept
his tools when he had done the jobs. The business was started because
the little money left by Father Brimmer when he died had, despite all
the watchful care of it, dwindled till now there was only a pittance
left. The old weather-beaten house would last them their lifetime, and
the ground was theirs, but the growing family would need more each year
to support them, and make them able to take their proper place in the
world. And the children, who had silently worried over the problem,
how to help the mother they had seen working for them early and late
ever since they could remember, were at last one day helped out by the
little old red tool-house.

“Here I am,” it seemed to say. “Your mother has given me to you for a
play-house; now use me to help her.”

It was an inspiration in the first of it, to be followed by hard and
grinding work, much of it in the face of half-laughing opposition
and downright sneers of friends and townsfolk. But Brimmer Brothers
and Company having begun to face the world never once thought of
shirking any of the duties which they met there, but just the same as
if everybody believed that they could make a success of the business,
they determined in their own minds to do so, and behaved accordingly.
And Rosy, the most timid little thing before strangers, forgot all her
fears now, and as Company of the new concern developed a resoluteness
and self-possession that amazed the boys.

All this was two years before this Thanksgiving; and now Mother Brimmer
and the successful business firm and Roly Poly were to have a party!

After the breakfast dishes were cleared away, the boys hurrying off
to the shop, as they anticipated a rushing trade for the day, the old
kitchen began to assume the aspect of getting ready for some great
festivity, while it smelt of spices and boiling sweets clear out
beyond the lilacs and down to the front gate. Every passer-by must
have known that it was Thanksgiving, and suspected pies and such other
accompaniments of the national holiday at once.

The stoning of raisins and buttering of cake-pans fell to Rosy to do,
who was excused from shop duty for the morning to help the mother in
her unwonted tasks; and patiently the little girl performed it all,
secretly planning, as she waited on the busy housewife, taking the
thousand and one necessary steps in and out the buttery and pantry, if
one of her little wood-gardens remained unsold in the shop, to take it
to dress the dinner-table on the morrow.

“They can’t all be sold,” thought Rosy, almost wishing for the
moment that there was not quite such a demand for them. “If the red
partridge-berries could only stay at home, what a party we would have!”

But when Cornelius ran in to dinner, Jack staying behind to mind the
shop, he shouted out gleefully, “Rosy, every single one of your gardens
is gone, and we could have sold two more if we’d had ’em!” Rosy gave a
great sigh, and then reproached herself for even wishing it otherwise.

“Rosy’ll make more money than any of us,” declared Cornelius, generally
called “Corny,” between his mouthfuls. “How I wish I’d thought about
fixing up roots and ferns and such things in old cracked saucers.”

“But you help me,” cried Rosy. “I couldn’t even dig the roots without
you, Corny.”

“And me, too!” cried Roly Poly, or Primrose, which was her real name.
“I always go with you, Rosy, you know,” and she laid down the little
bone she was slowly picking to regard her sister gravely.

“So you do!” cried Rosy and Cornelius together. “I’m sure we couldn’t
ever get along without you, Pet;” whereat the baby of the family felt
happy, and smilingly resumed her bone once more.

But that night a rap sounded on the outer door, sharp and decided.

“Run and see who it is, Jack,” said Mother Brimmer, looking up from her
stocking-mending.

Jack came hurrying back, a large parcel with white paper loosely folded
over it, in his hand.

“It’s for Rosy,” he said, setting it down.

“For me?” cried Rosy, too astonished to open it; but Cornelius helped
her, and at last the paper was torn off.

“It’s your old red wood-garden!” exclaimed Corny, dreadfully
disappointed, at least expecting a big cake.

“Oh!” Rosy clasped her hands, and took an ecstatic little spin in the
middle of the floor. “Now it isn’t wicked to want it!” she cried,
dreadfully excited.

“If I’d known you wanted to keep one,” said Jack slowly, “so bad, I
never’d sold it.”

“Who bought it?” asked his mother.

“Mrs. Higginson.”

“I wonder what other people do who haven’t got such a minister, and his
wife,” observed Mrs. Brimmer, wiping her eyes, as Rosy fell to oh-ing
over her treasure, and fondling each leaf. “Folks ought to be good who
sit under their preaching,” she added.

“We’ll be good to-morrow, anyway,” declared Cornelius. “My! don’t it
seem funny to go to church in the middle of the week!”

But on the morrow, wasn’t that a festive scene? The table was laid in
the keeping-room, whose door opened into the kitchen; knives and forks
were laid for seven guests: Mr. and Mrs. Higginson, the minister and
his good wife; Miss Clorinda Peaseley, a staunch friend of the family;
old Widow Tucker and her spinster daughter who went out tailoring,
and lived down in the Hollow; not because they would be such pleasant
additions to the party, as that Mother Brimmer felt sure that no other
invitations would be sent to them, bidding them to a Thanksgiving
dinner; and lame Joey Clark and his sister, for the same reason, and
because the children had begged to ask them.

Rosy’s wood-garden had the place of honor in the centre of the table,
and it did seem as if there never was such a number of bright little
berries to cast a glow over the neat cloth, done up in Mother Brimmer’s
best style! How they shone among their green leaves!

And the goose! The cheeks of the little maid who cooked it rivalled
her partridge berries in coloring, at all the compliments that were
showered upon her; while the chicken pie, and spare-rib, and plum
pudding, and pies, were declared the best ever eaten; and the hickory
nuts and butter nuts, cracked by the boys, received most honorable
mention.

And old Widow Tucker’s thin face began to lose some of its worn lines,
and she forgot to make any uncharitable remarks about other people, to
which she was a little prone, and her daughter, Miss Mary Jane, seeing
her ma so happy, came out from behind her spectacles and began to be
pleasant, too.

And the minister told the most delightful stories! and when he got
tired, then there was Miss Clorinda to set the ball of conversation
to rolling again. Everybody laughed, even lame Joey Clark, and,
altogether, there was no family party in all Cherryfield so merry and
festive.

And as they at last arose from the table, everybody protesting that
they could not eat a bit more, Rosy pulled her mother’s gown and
whispered, “I want to send a basketful of goodies down to the Four
Corners boys; may I, ma?”




DON’T GOSSIP.


CHILDREN, avoid this evil. I am pained every day at seeing the
work which mischief-makers do. Some one has compared this evil to
pin-making. “There is sometimes some truth, which I call the wire.
As this passes from hand to hand, one gives it a polish, another a
point, others make and put on the head, and at last the pin is done.”
The Bible speaks much against mischief-making, and I would advise you
to collect all the verses in this book, bearing on this subject, and
commit them to memory, and then I do not think you will ever be guilty
of this sin. Remember, my little friends, that you can never gather up
the mischief you may do by gossip.

                                                          R.




WILD ANIMALS AND THE TELEGRAPH.


SOME interesting facts have been brought out in a paper by M. C.
Nielsen of Christiana, on the impression produced upon animals by the
resonance of the vibration of telegraph wires. It is found that the
black and green woodpeckers, for example, which hunt for insects in the
bark and in the heart of decaying trees, often peck inside the circular
hole made transversely through telegraph posts, generally near the
top. The phenomenon is attributed to the resonance produced in the post
by the vibration of the wire, which the bird mistakes as the result of
the operation of worms and insects in the interior of the post. Every
one knows the fondness of bears for honey. It has been noticed that in
mountainous districts they seem to mistake the vibratory sound of the
telegraph wires for the grateful humming
of bees, and, rushing to the post, look about for the hive. Not finding
it on the post they scatter the stones at its base which help to
support it, and, disappointed in their search, give the post a parting
pat with their paw, thus showing their determination at least to kill
any bees that might be about it. Indisputable traces of bears about
prostrate posts and scattered stones prove that this really happens.
With regard to wolves, again, M. Nielsen states that when a vote was
asked at the time for the first great telegraph lines, a member of the
Storthing said that although his district had no direct interest in the
line proposed, he would give his vote in its favor, because he knew
the lines would drive the wolves from the districts through which they
passed. It is well known that to keep off the ravages of hungry wolves
in winter the farmers in Norway set up poles connected together by a
line or rope, under which the wolves would not dare to pass. “And it
is a fact,” M. Nielsen states, “that when, twenty or more years ago,
telegraph lines were carried over the mountains and along the valleys,
the wolves totally disappeared, and a specimen is now a rarity.”
Whether the two circumstances are casually connected, M. Nielsen does
not venture to say.—_Nature.

[Illustration: SEARCHING FOR SWEETS.]


THE BATTLE OF IVRY.

IN 1590 the armies of Henry the Fourth, of France, and of the Duke
of Mayenne, assembled near Ivry, which is not far from Paris. It was
in March, and the weather was very stormy. As night came, the vast
hordes of soldiers dragging their cannon through the deep mire, took
position for the awful conflict about to open. Henry had about twelve
thousand men, and the Duke nearly twenty thousand. Before the dawn,
Henry mounted his charger, and, riding along his lines, addressed
them in words of cheer. He urged upon them fidelity to France and to
themselves. In conclusion he said: “If in the turmoil of battle you
lose sight of your banner, follow the white plume on my casque; you
will find it on the road to victory and to honor.”

Oh! what a conflict did Ivry see that day! My dear little friends, I
never could understand why men love war. I never could see any good
it has ever done, but, on the contrary, war and intemperance have
made this world a sad and gloomy place. Read a full account of this
battle, and I think you will agree with me, that war has no charms.
Maddened battalions rushed over the plain, crushing the poor wounded
men. Grapeshot mowed down whole ranks, and shrieks of anguish echoed
over the field. In a single hour the plain was baptized in blood.
Henry came off victorious, but it was a victory dearly bought. In the
fearful retreat two thousand were put to the sword, and many captured.
I imagine that all France was hung in mourning after that awful day,
and thousands of homes were robbed of their treasures. Do not you think
it will be a happy day when warriors’ steeds shall be forever chained
in olive groves, and all men shall love each other? I trust so long as
we live peace, with dovelike wings, shall brood over our beloved land!

                                                    RINGWOOD.


PANAMA.

ALTHOUGH so much has been said about the Isthmus of Panama, and the
works now being carried on there, very little mention has been made of
the town from which that district takes its name. Englishmen should,
however, feel some special interest in it; since the old town, founded
in 1518, was destroyed by Morgan, the celebrated buccaneer, who started
from our shores on his romantic expeditions. The new town was built
by the Spanish Governor, Fernandez de Cordova, at some distance from
the old site, on a rocky peninsula, which was raised artificially and
protected from the sea by a huge stone rampart, flanked on either side
by solid bastions, and so fortified by the famous engineer, Alfonso
de Villa Costa, as to be considered the strongest place in the New
World after Carthagena. An account of the place now given by the
_Exploration_, a French paper, relates that these stone defences are
now crumbling into ruins, with the exception of the southeast bastion,
which is still used by the inhabitants as a favorite promenade. On the
land side, where the defences would have been most useful in modern
times, they have been purposely destroyed; and now the town is exposed
to periodical attacks by the people of the suburbs, who are from time
to time stirred up by some aspirant to power, and led up to the hill of
Santa Ana, which dominates the town. Having gained this vantage ground,
they engage in skirmishes with the townsfolk, and if victorious,
seize upon the government, which they retain until subverted by
similar proceedings. The town was, toward the end of the last century,
opulent and handsome. But its commerce was ruined by the wars; and its
inhabitants, by their carelessness, have allowed many fine buildings to
be burned. The railway has, it seems, restored some of its importance
to the place; and much more is, of course, expected from the canal now
projected.

                                                    —_Selected._

==========

    IF scorn be thy portion, if hatred and loss,
    If stripes or a prison, remember the Cross!
    God watches above thee, and he will requite;
    Stand firm and be faithful, desert not the right.
                                _Norman M’Leod._


DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

THE subject of our sketch became one of England’s most learned men.
He was born in Lichfield, in 1709, and died in 1784. He once made a
dictionary of our language; he also wrote “The Rambler,” “Rasselas,”
and “The Idler.”

I want to relate to you a little story of him when a small boy. His
father kept a bookstand, and one day he said, “Samuel, I am so feeble,
I want you to take my place at the stand.”

But the proud boy refused, and the sick father then started off, only
saying, “Well, if you can treat your sick father thus, I am sure you
will think of it when I am dead and gone.”

His conscience, however, soon began to trouble him. All day he saw
his poor father, sick and feeble, sitting at the stall, and he said to
himself, “Poor father! how his head will ache. I am so sorry I did not
go.”

This unkindness the boy never could forget, and years after, though
surrounded by the great of England, it would often recur to him.

Many years passed by, and one day an aged man made his way through the
market crowd at Uttoxeter. He stopped at the place which fifty years
before had been occupied by the book-seller, and the old gentleman was
heard to say:

“Yes; this is the very spot—the very spot!”

It was the great and illustrious man of England, in whose heart still
lingered the remembrance of his cruelty to his poor father.

                                                               R.


[Illustration: BABY ELIZABETH.]


BABY’S CORNER.

IT is time for Baby Elizabeth to go to bed. She does not want to go to
bed. She shakes her head and says, “No bed! No bed!” Her little mouth
is puckered up like a round O; here is a big tear in each blue eye.
Does Baby want to stay up all night? Shall mamma leave her sitting on
the floor all the dark night? No, no! Little mice stay up all night,
and run about and nibble and squeal; but dear babies must go to their
soft beds.

See! the sun has gone to bed. The little pink clouds are lying down in
the sky. The white lilies have gone to sleep. The birdies have gone up
in the tree to bed. They are singing a little song to baby. Hark! What
do they say? “Go to bed, bed, bed. Good-night, little E-liz-a-beth!
Good-night!”

Now baby smiles. She is good. She will have on her long white gown. She
folds her little hands and says, “Now I lay me.” Mamma puts her in her
white crib. In one little minute her eyes are shut. Little Elizabeth is
asleep.

In the morning early the sun will get up quick. The white lilies will
wake up and wash their faces in dew. The birdies will open their eyes.
They will say, “Peep, peep! Good-morning, Baby! Get up, up!” Then
Baby’s eyelids will open; she will smile and show her six white teeth.
All day long the sun will shine. The lilies will grow. The birds will
sing, and little Elizabeth will be sweet.

                                            MRS. C. M. LIVINGSTON.

[Illustration: A GERMAN HOUSEWIFE.]


SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.

    The address of Mrs. G. R. Alden (Pansy) is Winter Park,
    Orange Co., Florida. All contributions for THE PANSY
    magazine should be sent to that P. O., and _not_ to the
    Publishers, D. Lothrop Company.


[Illustration]

ALL ALONG THE LINE.

_Conducted by_

R. M. ALDEN.

    I wonder if any of the Pansies ever wanted to be
    missionaries? I wonder if any of them ever said they
    would like to be, but didn’t like to leave their home
    and friends? Now let me say just a word: You can all
    be missionaries this very day, and go no farther than
    the inkstand to do your first work. Every reader of
    THE PANSY who knows of anything interesting in church,
    Sunday-school, missionary or temperance news, anywhere
    “along the line,” will be helping us by sending brief
    reports, and will feel that he or she has been doing
    a bit of missionary work. Address all, for this
    department, to R. M. Alden, Winter Park, Orange Co.,
    Florida.

LAST year there were in Iowa fifty-five counties without a single
occupant for their jails, during the twelve months. It is in Iowa, you
know, that they have the prohibition law which “does not prohibit.” It
does seem to make a difference.

       *       *       *       *       *

SINCE some towns in Georgia have succeeded in getting the prohibition
of the liquor traffic, a minister from one of them writes, “The results
are marvelous. The trade of the town has been more than doubled. I
do not know a single merchant who would not vote against the liquor
traffic purely on business grounds.”

       *       *       *       *       *

A LABORER was recently fined for allowing his dog to drink beer, which
made the animal savage. The judge thought it was the man’s fault for
allowing his dog to drink. Why shouldn’t a dog have a right to drink
beer if it’s given him? How can appetite be controlled? This question
has been asked: “If that laborer was under obligation to keep his
dog from drinking beer and hurting people, ought we to permit men to
receive liquor, and injure themselves and their fellow-men?”

       *       *       *       *       *

I WONDER if the Pansies have been posted about “rubber grapes”? Little
rubber bags made to look exactly like large beautiful grapes; but
what do you think fills them, instead of the delicious fruit which
God has made? Why, brandy, or whiskey, or wine, or whatever liquor
the buyer prefers! Think of it! The circular describing them says one
great advantage is, “that travellers can refresh themselves in this way
without exciting observation.” Can they? Suppose we make that part hard
for them; thirty thousand Pansy Blossoms with their eyes wide open are
not going to be cheated by rubber grapes. Of course every boy and girl
will see to it that no miserable humbug who pretends to be a “fruit
dealer” gets any of their money for his cheating grapes. But isn’t
Satan smart, and cunning, and busy? Really, it becomes us to keep our
eyes very wide open indeed.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHO among us has ever visited the school for Indians in Carlisle, Pa.?
If any Pansy Blossom has been there, I wish he or she would write us a
letter about the school. It is a very interesting place; four hundred
and fifty scholars, boys and girls; the girls in navy-blue dresses and
cloaks, the cloaks lined with scarlet, the boys in military dress. With
their very bright eyes, and their very black hair, I think they must
make a handsome picture.

Industrious people are they; the cooking is done entirely by the
pupils; the clothing is all made by them; they even make their own
shoes! They are very good scholars; some of them really brilliant.

You wonder how they get time to study, with so much work to be done;
that is all nicely planned for them. Half the pupils go to school in
the morning, while the other half are at work in the sewing-room, the
pantry, the harness shop, the printing office, the carpenter’s room,
and the like. In the afternoon these two divisions change places; the
students work, and the workmen turn students.

Think what a little while ago these boys and girls were roaming through
the forests, sleeping on the ground, their only dress old blankets
wrapped about them; learning to be dangerous enemies to all the white
race! Now some of them are Christians, and all are well-behaved and
industrious. Who will remember to pray daily for the Indian School at
Carlisle?




[Illustration: The P. S. CORNER]



MY DEAR BLOSSOMS:

I have a very nice plan for the year. I wonder who of you will join me?
A Bible Band. That is what I now want to form. I will select and have
printed in each PANSY a list of readings for each day in the month. How
many of my Blossoms will engage to read the day’s portion with me, and
write out in little blank books prepared for the purpose, answers to
the following questions:

1. What is there in this reading that I ought especially to remember?

2. Is there a direction for me to follow, if so, what?

3. Is there something for me to avoid, if so, what?

How can I make these verses help me through this day?

Now the way I am going to plan it is to read over the verses, and
make my report in my little blank book before I leave my room in the
morning. Perhaps that will not be a convenient time for all of you.
Perhaps the little people who cannot yet read nor write, will have to
wait for mamma’s or papa’s or sister’s leisure hour, to get help. But
I wish all who could would join me in the morning before going down
stairs; then, after the reading, we will kneel down and ask God to help
us remember the verses all day.

I would like to have each member of the P. S. who will join this Bible
Band, send me a letter addressed to Winter Park, Florida, giving his or
her promise to obey the rules of the Band as given here. To all such I
will send a little card for their Bible bookmark with the name of the
reader written on the back, and the date of the pledge. I shall keep
a roll of all members of the Bible Band. At the end of each month I
should be glad to have a copy of what you wrote in your little blank
books. If you like, you might get a large sheet of paper, the first of
the month, and make a copy for me each day, sending it to me at the
close of the month.

I shall keep a list of those reports, and, at the close of the year, I
will publish the names of those members who have reported each month,
and send them each a little token of my pleasure because of their
faithfulness.

Now I wonder how large a Band I shall have? Of course I will keep you
informed through THE PANSY of its size and growth, and send you words
of greeting. I think a great many of you will join me. I hope so. It
will be very pleasant to think of my Blossoms reading and thinking each
day about the same Bible verses. Who will be the first to send in his
name, and receive the bookmark?

                                                   Lovingly,
                                                          PANSY.

P. S.—If any of you know of something unusually nice, which happened at
Thanksgiving time, write us an account of it.


READINGS FOR THE BIBLE BAND ADOPTION.

    Nov.  1. 2 Cor. 14-18.
     “    2. Gal. iii: 25-29.
     “    3. Eph. iii: 14-21.
     “    4. Eph. vi: 11-18.
     “    5. John i: 9-13.
     “    6. Gal. iv: 4-7.
     “    7. Heb. ii: 10-18.
     “    8. John xi: 41-52.
     “    9. Rom. viii: 14-18.
     “   10. 1 John iii: 1-3.
     “   11. John xx: 19-22.
     “   12. Heb. xii: 5-10.
     “   13. Phil. ii: 12-16.
     “   14. Matt. v: 44, 45, 48.
     “   15. Eph. v: 1, 2.
     “   16. Matt. vi: 25-34.
     “   17. Matt. v: 13-16.
     “   18. Matt. vii: 7-12.
     “   19. Matt. v: 9-12.
     “   20. Matt. vi: 12-15.
     “   21. Luke vi: 35, 36.
     “   22. Matt. vi: 1-4.
     “   23. Prov. xiv: 26.
     “   24. Num. vi: 24-27.
     “   25. Is. lxii: 2, 3.
     “   26. Matt. xiii: 43-46.
     “   27. Matt. vi: 9-13.
     “   28. Gen. xlviii: 5-11.
     “   29. Ex. ii: 1-10.
     “   30. Ps. xxiii.

_Lucy May Quint._ If all the Pansies were as busy as my little friend
in Whitefield how very busy I should be adding names to THE PANSY roll.
Many thanks, my dear. To make your meetings good will require a busy
Lucy, thinking, reading, planning, conversing with parents and others,
praying Jesus for guidance and comfort, never despairing, no matter
what happens to spoil your meetings.

Keep gathering for your meetings, a crumb in this book or paper;
another from a talk with some one; and so on. Thus you will always have
something on hand.

You had a “nice,” “splendid” time in the church on Children’s Day, amid
flowers and singing-birds, evergreens, and, best of all, a good sermon.

It is right to join the church. Now be true, dear, to your covenant,
for Jesus’ sake. Don’t let any one who knows you doubt as to whether
you are a Christian.

_Christiana Lacy._ No, the Editor did not forget Sevenfold Trouble, but
“Uncle Sam” somehow forgot to get it from the writer to the printer.
The mail does not always behave as it should.

Yes; I have read some of Miss Alcott’s works.

You and your friend Jennie seem to have a good standing in school. I am
glad to hear good things of every Pansy.

_Alice_ of Minn. “At the farm.” No wonder you like it ever so much; in
the orchard, where you have a swing; down at the brook, where you try
to catch a speckled trout; among the sheep and cows; riding on hay or
wheat from field to barn; then sweet bread and sparkling butter!

As for the dishwashing, how you three girls do chatter while you are
at it, and boast as to whose cups and saucers are wiped cleanest. If
you will send a copy of the Queer Story, corrected, I can tell if it be
right.

_Ruth Kimball._ Hunting eggs; boating among pond lilies; at Cedar Bend
Farm; with such a dear companion as Alice must be, what a happy girl
you are. Well, child, make other hearts sunny, too, won’t you?

_Gertrude Burgess._ None but perfect ones on the Queer Story appears in
my report. Many come within one of it; that is a failure all the same
as one hundred. See? “A miss is as good as a mile.” So, look your work
over and over and over before you send it. Thus you will certainly do
perfect work some day. Meanwhile the effort will be a—school to you.
You are a blessed girl to be fighting so bravely against that fault.
Have you learned how to lean your weakness upon Jesus’ might?

_Lydia Sewell._ The pansy on the card is larger than many, but no
larger than some I’ve seen. By careful culture they grow to great
size. Your corrected Queer Story is well done, yet with a few errors.
It would be rather unusual if every particular had been right. Still,
if you are a girl of good metal, you will certainly tug away at this
spelling business till you will know the right as readily as you now
know your mamma’s face from five thousand others. Keep on and show
yourself a true Pansy soldier.

_Lydia I. Boring._ Your Queer Story is within one of perfection. So you
need not be cast down. Some have made a dozen mistakes. I guess you
will be A No. 1 one on the next Queer Story.

_Adella F. Coy._ Am glad you are pleased to think so kindly of your
Pansy picture. I wonder if you have the picture of the Lord engraven on
your heart and often look tenderly upon it through the eye of faith and
love. Let’s never grow too old to delight in leading and blessing the
little ones. You rejoice me in what you say of the badge. Many others
say the same thing. If you will send me a corrected copy of the Queer
Story I will examine it.

_Helen S. Sloan._ See above about the Queer Story. You “Busy Bees” made
$127. The hospital will think that sweet as honey. You must write D.
Lothrop Company, Boston, Mass., about the “prizes.” They will explain.

_Mary E. Simpson._ At your request, I hand your letter to R. M. Alden.
I guess he will not throw it into the waste-basket.

Charlie Compher lives in Leesburg, Va. He will be glad to get a letter
from you.

The country is a blessed place. Isn’t it queer that so many country
boys and girls don’t think so, but are discontented and want to get to
the city, feeling sure that the city will make them happy? Contentment,
my dear Mary, is a precious possession.

_Nannie Johnson._ You are eleven years old. Now if you live to be seven
times that and each day “grow in grace,” what a beautiful old lady you
will be. Of course you will outgrow “carelessness” the first month, and
have plenty of time to pick up after mamma, instead of her doing it
after you; and the “pony” and “parrot” and “dog” and “dear little baby
sister,” and everybody else, I guess, will be glad.

_K. G. Boring._ A capital account, yours, of your Fourth of July. I can
almost see you at the parade, and I’m so glad you got home safely from
the crowds and the tramp of horses and that your fingers are not blown
off. Rockets and Roman candles seen from the house-top! Balloons, too!
Happy child! But what will you say when you see the great Lord coming
in the clouds? How rejoiced you will be if you are His at His coming.

_May Cameron._ Let me commend you for finding so many mistakes in
the Queer Story. I must see your work to determine its correctness.
As to faults: Many are temper faults; many, disorder; many, teasing,
answering back; “wait a minute;” biting nails, etc.

Remember me to Mr. Doane. You seem to be a wide-awake Band of Hope,
with your meetings, “Mizpah,” flowers, and care of the sick. To be busy
for the Saviour is to be safe from Satan.

_Charlie M. Ritter._ You are very kind to remember the organ. I wish I
could say something to make everything green and beautiful about you.
But your turn will come. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage. He hears
the young raven when it cries. What a delightful time you must have had
on Children’s Day.

_Elma Holmes._ And while you wear your badge here and there, be sure
that you so live that your mother and all the dear ones at home can
say, “Our Elma does what she professes.”

_Edith G. Grant._ I shouldn’t wonder if your Queer Story was correct.
Let me see a copy now. Allie will soon learn other good things besides
“cutting kindling-wood,” perhaps to read PANSY or Bible stories when
mamma is tired. How I should love to visit you in your summer home in
“beautiful Tullahoma.” Instead, I went to beautiful Ashville, N. C., in
September.


IN MEMORIAM.

ANOTHER Blossom transplanted into the garden of God. Herbie Baily
of Madison, Wis., at the age of ten, July 6th, passed away. With
his parents he was attending a Fourth of July celebration, when an
accidental ball struck him. Nothing serious was feared till two days
later, when, at 8 P. M., he rushed into the house, screaming: “My head!
My head! I shall die!” At 11 he breathed his last. Now, can you wonder
that this dear boy, “so tender and quick to sympathize with any one
in trouble and pain,” to whom “nothing was so charming as the ‘Story
of the Bible,’ who delighted in everything pertaining to the life of
Christ”—do you wonder that the mother says: “It seems as if I cannot
bear his loss?”

Maybe now some loving heart will be prompted to write a word of
sympathy to Herbie’s mother, Mrs. A. S. Baily.


WHERE ARE YOU?

Sylbil L. Anderson, Gilbert Anderson, Lizzie Carnes, Addie R. Crane,
Estelle Duncan, Edith R. Foster, Mrs. Joshua Gowing, Josie ——, of
Amesbury, Mass., Carrie I. Glauche, H. H. Hass, Jessie M. Hatch, John
W. Holland, Marcella McDougall, Mabel A. Morse, Rose Price, Christine
and Ollie Seely, Alice Stone, Rena B. Williams, and H. G. Shattuck, A.
S. Willick, S. Willard Wood, Norma E. Wood, Mary W. Wells, Nellie M.
Merritt.

To nearly all these names letters, with badges enclosed, have gone and
returned. Most failed to give post-office, State, county, Street, or
number. Write me now and say just where I may send these letters. Be
plain and particular.


MIRZA ALI’S LETTER.

    MY SPIRITUAL TEACHER:

_Dear, magnanimous Mr. Wright_:

FIRST: I hope your existence is safe and you have no bodily ailment.
Second: If you wish to inquire my health, I thank God, I and my mother
and my sister are very well, and we are thanking to our Lord and
Saviour in return for His gifts. My words will not be finished if I
want to count the gifts of our God. It is only sufficient to write
that He gave His beloved Son, Jesus Christ, and saved us from death.

If you wish to acquire of circumstances of gentlemen and ladies, the
missionaries, thank be God, all they are safe and busy to cause to
reach the good news to the multitudes.

Their families and ladies are safe. Our school and the teacher, Baroon
Wahan, and the scholars are safe; every day is Baroon Wahan busy to
teach them. They learn the means of holy books.

I, ownself also, every day in the mornings am busy to give lessons
in Turkish to my dear Sir Mr. Whipple, agent of the American Bible
Society. Other times I am in telegraph office. There I write the
subjects; there I am busy till night and night we finish. These days I
give lessons in English to the son of chief of telegraph, and both the
son of Aga Mirza Abdul Ali, the doctor. I am sorry I have no dictionary
from Persian to English. When I want to translate a book from Turkish
to English it is not possible. I remain unable and become unequal. If
I have this dictionary I hope I will spread English abroad. You are my
benefactor; you are my kind and merciful friend.

If you have not any more Dictionary and you have one only and it is
necessary for yourself also, you cannot send (it) for me. You promise
to me that you write to Constantinople or America. They send for me.
You calculate it present, given at Festival time to me. I hope you
desperate not me, but you will help me.... I am expecting for answer.
I hope you will send me that book and you will make me glad and happy.
If you have order, write me. I will execute and perform it. I will obey
to all your commands. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.
Amen! And God may increase your love for Jesus, His beloved Son. Amen!
If you find and see some mistake shut your eyes from my faults. Excuse
me, sir. It is the first letter I wrote in English.

                                               MIRZA ALI,
                                          _The teacher of Mr. Whipple_.


THE QUER STOREY.

WEN the Pansy Socity begun, thar was a boy, whos name musent be given.
His mother tride to purswade him to plege his-self aganst useing
sigars. He had became a grate smoker. The supertenent of the sundy
schol of wich this boy was a nenber tride two. But he dident want a
bage or too have his apetite controled. He became verry bad, folowing
anny and evry boddy abowt too git a sigar. This brout him into the
salloons, whar he lernt two drink lagger bier and sware and tel storys.

If all the sigars, wich he has smoked sence that was lain end too end,
thay wood reech neerly one fifth of a mile!

How menny galons of bier he has drank and how menny oths he has swoar
woold take too larg a peice off paper to rite them all onto, i am sory
two hav to anounce, he is not giting enny beter.

[Send a corrected copy to Mrs. Alden.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE following persons have mastered the Queer Story. A few others may
have done so, but not having sent their copy for examination it is
impossible for me to know:

Glenroy L. Black, Lucy Dickerson, Charlotte Fitch, Louise Hosmer, Cora
J. Russell, Margaret Hoyt, Jessie Strengle, Hallie Edwards, Daisy
Vaughan, Lydia Boring, Agnes Oliver.

Several others came within one or two words of perfection.


NEW BOOKS.

(_Published by D. Lothrop Company._)

SOLDIER AND SERVANT. By Ella M. Baker. Price $1.25; to Pansy Society 75
cents. A thoroughly good book for girls, with not a dull page in it.
The young Christian cannot fail to be helped by the story of Lisle’s
pure true life as soldier and servant.

AFTER SCHOOL DAYS. By Lucy Wheelock. Price $1.00; to Pansy Society
60 cents. It is a thousand pities that the sensational fiction which
constitutes the chief reading of many of our older girls could not be
replaced by such simple, charming stories as this one. It is bright and
healthful, and filled with good lessons, both practical and spiritual.

SWISS STORIES. From the German of Madame Johanna Spyri. By Lucy
Wheelock. Price $1.00. To Pansy Society 60 cents. A lovely book within
and without; just the thing for a gift. It is not simply amusing; every
child who reads it cannot fail of being helped by its pure, sweet
lessons. We quote a few pages from “Lisa’s Christmas”:

“The next day the great question was, what the lamb’s name would be.

“Lisa proposed calling it Eulalie, for that was the name of her
friend’s cat, and it seemed to her an especially fine name. But the
boys did not like it. It was too long. Kurt proposed Nero, as the big
dog at the mill was called. But Lisa and Karl were not pleased with
this name.

“In despair they went to their mother, who suggested he should be
called ‘Curlyhead,’ and Curlyhead he was from that forth.

“The little creature soon became a great pet for the children. They
took him out for a frolic whenever they had a few spare moments.
Sometimes they went to the pasture and Kurt and Karl would search for
rich, juicy clover leaves to bring him, while Lisa sat on a bank with
the little creature’s head in her lap.

“Whenever a child was sent on an errand to the mill or to the baker’s,
the lamb must go, and he listened so intelligently to all the
conversation his companion addressed to him that it was evident he
understood every word. He grew round as a ball, and his wool was as
white and pretty as if he was always in his Sunday dress.

“The beautiful sunny autumn was drawing to a close, Christmas was
coming, Kurt and Karl disclosed all their cherished dreams to
Curlyhead, and assured him he should have his share of holiday presents.

“Lisa had a particular friend, Marie, who lived in the great farmhouse
on the way to the Zillesback. Lisa was very anxious to visit this
friend, for she could talk over her prospects for Christmas more fully
with her than with her brothers. She had permission to go on her first
free afternoon, and when the time came she was so impatient to start,
that she could hardly hold still long enough for her mother to tie on
her warm scarf. Then she ran bounding off, while her mother watched her
until she was half-way down the hill; then she turned and went into the
house again.

“At that moment it came into Lisa’s mind that Curlyhead would enliven
the way if her brothers had not already taken him. She quickly turned
around, ran back to the barn and took out Curlyhead. Together they ran
down the hard path where the bright autumn leaves were dancing about
in the wind. They soon reached the end of their journey, where Lisa
and her friend where quickly lost in deep conversation, walking up and
down on the sunny plot of ground in front of the house, while Curlyhead
nibbled contentedly at the hedge.

“The two friends refreshed themselves occasionally with pears, and
juicy, red apples, which grew in great abundance on the farm.

“Marie’s mother had brought out a great basketful, and Lisa was to
carry home what were left. When it was time for Lisa to go home, Marie
accompanied her a little way, and they still had so much to say that
they were in sight of Lisa’s home before they knew it. Marie quickly
took leave of her, and Lisa hurried up the path. It was already dark.
Just as she reached the house the thought flashed through her mind like
lightning: ‘Where is Curlyhead?’

“She knew she had taken him with her. She had seen him nibbling the
hedge and then she had entirely forgotten him.

“In a most dreadful fright she rushed back down the mountain again.
‘Curlyhead, Curlyhead, where are you? Oh, come, come!’

“But all was still. Curlyhead was nowhere to be seen. Lisa ran back
to the farmhouse. There was a light already in the window of the
sitting-room, and she could look in from the stone steps by the house.
They were all at the supper-table; father, mother, Marie and her
brothers and the servants. The old cat lay on the bench by the stove;
but nowhere was there a trace of Curlyhead to be seen as Lisa peered
into all the corners. Then she ran around the house into the garden,
around the hedge, again into the garden, and along the inside of the
hedge, calling ‘Curlyhead, come now, oh! come, come!’

“All in vain; there was no sight or sound of the lamb. Lisa grew more
anxious. It grew darker and the wind howled louder and louder, and
almost blew her from the ground. She must go home. What should she do?
She did not dare to say she had lost Curlyhead. If she could see her
mother alone first!”

[Illustration:

    TESTED
    TO
    OVER
    1600
    LBS. TO SQ.
    INCH

L’E PAGE’S THE ONLY GENUINE LIQUID GLUE]

=ALWAYS READY FOR USE.=

=_Does not set quickly like the old style Glue; has four times the
strength._=

No Heating.

These Glues are used in the Smithsonian Institute at Washington for
all its works of mounting specimens, by the Government Arsenals and
Department Buildings, by the Pullman Palace Car Co., Mason & Hamlin
Organ and Piano Co., and by thousands of first-class manufacturers and
mechanics throughout the world for all kinds of fine work.

Pronounced =STRONGEST ADHESIVE KNOWN=. Sold in tin cans for mechanics
and amateurs, and in bottles for family use.

The total quantity sold between Jan. 1880, and 1887, in all parts of
the world amounted to over =Forty-Seven Million= bottles.

Don’t be cajoled into buying the various Liquid Glues which are being
put on the market; some with high-sounding names; others imitating our
trade-marks and name as near as they dare; their only cry is: “Just as
good as ‘LePage’s.’” It is the best recommendation that the =RUSSIA
CEMENT CO.= could have of the merits of their glues. Labels of our CANS
are black and yellow; BOTTLES, red, yellow, green and black, with a
line of blue.

_We have just commenced manufacturing our NEW PATENT CAN—which has the
following advantages: The top can be turned on or off readily by the
fingers—each Can has brush fastened to the inside of cover, and a wiper
to take off superfluous glue. This arrangement enables the amateur or
artisan to carry a small can in the pocket ready for immediate use,
without danger of soiling from brush or can. The NEW PATENT CAN is in
3 sizes:—Half-pint, gill and half gill.—Regular Cans, pint, quart,
2-quart and gallon. Bottles, two sizes, as heretofore: 1 oz. and 2 oz._

    =Be sure and get the GENUINE LePAGE’S=,

    MADE ONLY BY THE

    =RUSSIA CEMENT CO., Gloucester, Mass.=


[Illustration: YOU CAN’T AFFORD

    TO
    LET
    YOUR
    CUSTOMERS
    GO TO
    ANOTHER
    STORE
    FOR WHAT
    THEY WANT.

    EVERYBODY
    WANTS
    THE GENUINE
    ARTICLE

    NO SHORT
    MEASURE

    NO ACID
    HUMBUG

    IN GLUES

    MADE BY THE

    RUSSIA CO.
    CEMENT


    THE
    STRONGEST
    GLUE
    IN THE WORLD.

    TWO GOLD MEDALS

    LONDON
    1883

    CONTAINS NO ACID
    AWARDED

    NEW ORLEANS
    1885.

    RUSSIA CEMENT CO.

    LEPAGE’S
    LIQUID GLUE
    ALWAYS
    READY FOR USE

    MANUFACTURED BY THE
    RUSSIA CEMENT CO

    FOR SALE EVERYWHERE

    AT THE      WORLDS
    EX’B’N.      AT NEW
    ORLEANS      JOINTS
    MADE WITH      IT ENDURED
    A TESTING      STRAIN OF OVER
    SIXTEEN HUNDRED POUNDS TO A SQ. INCH.

    =DON’T= BE DECEIVED by the host of imitators
    who are flooding the market, copying
    our labels and trade name even saying they make
    a LIQUID GLUE =JUST AS GOOD AS= the RUSSIA
    CEMENT CO’S. The =ONLY GENUINE= LePage’s
    Liquid Glue manufactured solely by the

    RUSSIA CEMENT CO, Gloucester, Mass.


TO LIVE WITHOUT LEPAGE’S LIQUID GLUE

IN THE HOUSE FOR REPAIRING YOUR FURNITURE, GLASS, CHINA, IVORY, BOOKS,
LEATHER, MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, STATUARY, &c. &c.

IT IS UNEQUALLED.

TRY IT.]

Sample by mail 20 cents (stamps). Mention this journal.

[Illustration: Russia Cement Co.]

=Gloucester, Mass.=


    =PARKER’S=
    With it you can stamp more than
    =1000
    PATTERNS=

[Illustration: STAMPING ’88 OUTFIT

Exceeds in value all other outfits,

=$1.00.=

Sent anywhere by mail, prepaid.]

This outfit contains book =teaching every known Method of stamping=,
price 25 cents; Box Best Powder and Pad, 15 cts.; Materials for
indelible Stamping on Plush, Felt, etc., 15 cts.; Materials and
Instruction for =Parker’s New Method=, (copyrighted), =No Paint=, =No
Powder=, =No Daub=, 50 cents; New =1888 Catalogue= (showing all the new
stamping patterns), 10 cents; and =Illustrated Wholesale Price List=
of Embroidery Materials, Infant’s Wardrobes, Corsets, Jewelry, and
everything ladies need.

[Illustration: Pointing Hand] SAVE MONEY BY BUYING AT WHOLESALE.
[Illustration: Inverted Pointing Hand]


=PARKER’S LAST INVENTION.=

=A SET OF DESIGNING PATTERNS.=—With this set any one can design
thousands of beautiful pieces for Embroidery, Tinsel Work, Painting,
etc. =No experience needed=—a child can do it. An Illustrated Book
=shows how= to make patterns to fill any space; all the flowers used
in embroidery represented. Every one who does stamping wants a set,
=which can be had only with this outfit=. This outfit also contains
=TWO HUNDRED or more Stamping Patterns ready for use=. The following
being only a partial list:—=Splasher Design, 22 in.=, 50 cents; Roses,
12 in., and Daisies, 12 in., for scarf or tidies, 25 cents each; Wide
Tinsel Design, 12 in., 25 cents; Strips of Scallops for Flannels,
wide and narrow, 30 cts.; Braiding Patterns 10 cts.; Splash! Splash!
“=Good Night=,” and “=Good Morning=,” for pillow shams, two fine
outline designs for tidies, 6x8, 50 cts.; =Tray Cloth Set=, 50 cts.;
Teapot, Sugar, Cream, Cup and Saucer, etc.; Pond Lilies, 9x12, 25
cts.; 2 Alphabets, $1.00; 2 Sets Numbers, 30 cts.; Patterns of Golden
Rod, Sumac, Daisies, Roses, &c., Tinsel and Outline Patterns, Disks,
Crescents, &c.


COUPON FOR ONE DOLLAR.

In addition to all these and many other patterns we enclose a =Coupon
good for $1 worth of patterns= of your own selection chosen from our
catalogue.


THE MODERN PRISCILLA. 1 Year.

=The Modern Priscilla= (the only practical =fancy work journal= in
America), by arrangement with the publishers, will also be sent free
for one year.

    =The Great Value of this Outfit is in Good Useful Patterns.=

    =T. E. PARKER, Lynn, Mass.=


[Illustration: THE MODERN PRISCILLA

Devoted exclusively to =LADIES’ FANCY WORK=.]

=THE MODERN PRISCILLA.=

Published monthly, at 50 cts. per year. Descriptions of new fancy work
appear every month; all directions for knitting or crocheting carefully
corrected. Everything beautifully illustrated.

=Miss Eva M. Niles says=: “I think your paper a little gem.” =Get up a
Club. Great Inducements!! Send stamp for premium list.= Club rate is
now 25 cts. a year, or 5 for =$1=. Get 4 subscribers and have your own
free. Address,

=Priscilla Publishing Co., Lynn, Mass.=

=SAVE MONEY.=

Embroidery Material, Infant’s Goods, Kid Gloves, Corsets, Laces,
Ruchings, etc., at =WHOLESALE PRICES=.

Sent anywhere by mail.

POSTAGE ALWAYS PREPAID.

25 Skeins Embroidery Silk, 11 cents. Box of Waste Embroidery Silk,
worth 40 cents, for only 21 cents. Felt Tidies, all stamped, 10 cents.
Linen Splashers, all stamped, 18 cts. Felt Table Scarfs, 18x50, all
stamped, 48 cents. Ball Tinsel, 8 cents.

=T. E. PARKER, Lynn, Mass.=


    AN IMPORTANT ADVANCE IN SUNDAY SCHOOL BOOKS AND
    UNEXPECTED HELP IN PICKING THEM OUT.

Sunday School books have been growing better and better for many years;
and yet we think they are scarcely keeping pace with the general
forward movement. Indeed the improvement in Sunday School books has
been largely brought about by mixing with them books designed for wider
use.

Why not then widen the word to cover the fact, and get such other books
for Sunday Schools as are fit for rising young people, books to help
them rise?

That is the direction in which D. Lothrop Company has been working
for several years; and its Sunday School books are largely made up of
reading and pictures by no means confined to religious subjects. Now it
goes still further in the direction of the popular tendency, and offers
for Sunday Schools a separate list of books not often thought of for
that purpose.

Everybody knows that children, especially boys, are apt to prefer a
library where all sorts of books are within their reach. Such browsing
unrestrained is apt to lead downward rather than up. But why not let
the Sunday School library have the attraction without the danger? Why
not afford the delight of inspiring, instructive, helpful literature in
some of the books and religious teaching in others without the popular
trash?

So two separate lists of books for the Sunday School library: one of
modern (not “goody-goody” or stupid) Sunday School books, the other of
secular books for the rising young.

These lists are arranged according to the relative acceptability of the
books as shown in the main by the numbers called for. (1) religious
Sunday School books; and (2) secular Sunday School books.

The books in both lists are arranged in the order of their
acceptability. And so the lists are a help in choosing books. The
majority vote may not be an infallible standard; but is there a
better, especially when the voters are well-informed about what they
are voting on?

The man who makes and sells a thing is the man who knows its quality;
for the opinions of those who use it get around to him, and that very
promptly. These lists are made with just that knowledge.

First and foremost of the decidedly religious books are the Pansy
books. Pansy herself is a leader of children. She opens her mouth—they
are eager to catch her lightest word. She raises her hand—instinctively
up go theirs. The secret of such a power as that is sympathy, feeling
together.

So in her books. She enters into their smallest experiences. The boys
and girls of her books, the children of her brain, are just like her
readers, natural flesh and blood; not life-like but real, just as real
as you are yourself. They live in their world with the rest of us; have
their ups and downs, perplexities, such as come to us all; and they
win. So shall we who read!

That is inspiration. The reader becomes the actor, the hero, the
heroine. Happy the writer who uses such power as that for helping,
guiding, building up.

There are more than a hundred “Pansy books,” mostly by Pansy herself, a
few by one or two helpers, a few by others altogether. They constitute,
we may fairly say, the very highest class of traditional Sunday School
books. They belong to the highest order of Sunday School work.

D. Lothrop Company, Boston, is just now getting out these lists of
religious and secular Sunday School books, arranged with a view of
marking their relative popularity. The Pansy books are at the top of
the religious list, and Arthur Gilman’s History of the American People
heads the secular list.

Send for the primer—sent free by the publishers.

       *       *       *       *       *

BABYLAND is so good a diversion for baby and help for the mother that
it ought to be in every baby family. Pictures and jingles and laughter.
Baby will study in spite of you.


PREMIUM LIST

The Things you are going to have your choice of—you who look about
among your neighbors and help them pick out their reading and pictures.

It is a neighborly act. And the time to begin to be careful of reading
and pictures is when the baby can understand them. Let them come in the
following order:

    _Babyland_: nurse-help for the mother, and baby-joy for
    the little one; $0.50 a year.

    _Our Little Men and Women_: delightful hours and years
    for beginning readers; $1.

    _Pansy_: the Sunday School age is the time for Pansy;
    $1.

    _Chautauqua Young Folks’ Journal_: for studious young
    folks; $1.

    _Wide Awake_: library, study, play-house, life at home
    and abroad, companionship of the wise and good; $2.40.

Think of a life not only unhurt by wrong reading and pictures, but
helped by right reading and pictures all the way through! It _is_ a
neighborly act!

We make such Terms as you never heard of—for work.

    D LOTHROP COMPANY
    PUBLISHERS OF BOOKS AND MAGAZINES
    BOSTON


Who Skips This Page Will Please Skip All

[Sidenote: What premiums are and to whom they are due]

Premiums are pay for work and nothing else. That work is getting new
subscriptions. It is done when you send the names, addresses and money.
Then you take your choice of the things in the List.

[Sidenote: Why we pay so much]

This work is of great importance to us, no matter how little there is
to be done in your neighborhood. We pay for it _all the money there
is_; we pay in such a way as to make it more to you than it is to us,
especially if you happen to live where good new things are hard to get,
where the stores are stocked with things that are going out of use
instead of with things that are coming into use.

[Sidenote: The best things in the list]

We put in the List the best we can get and the best we can get for the
money: some things because it is worth your while to know about them;
others to answer wants we know exist—we put in nothing to be ashamed
of. Some things are commonplace; not all are new or hard to get; but
those we emphasize are worthy of careful study.

To be in the List at all is commendation. To be described is high
commendation.

[Sidenote: When premiums are due]

Premiums are due when the names and money are here, and may be taken at
any time thereafter, the sooner the better for us. You can have them
right along as you earn them, or wait a little and have more together
and save a part of the cost of transportation; but the sooner you take
them the surer you are of getting them. Some will be gone by and by.

[Sidenote: Who pays for transportation]

All costs for freight, express and postage are paid by receiver, except
postage on books, magazines and a few small things on which the postage
is only a cent or two.

The postage on mailable things is stated in the List except as above.
[When the postage is not stated: if the thing weighs only an ounce or
two, we pay the postage; but, if heavier, it must go by express.] It
is often true that mailable things go for less by express. We send the
cheapest way, if we know it.

Some things are sent direct from the makers to save expense.

Everything over four pounds, too big for the mail, or for any reason
unmailable, goes by express; and you pay the freight on receipt.

[Sidenote: How much the cost of a package is by express]

You can generally find out about how much by guessing the size and
weight and inquiring at your express office.

You can economize freights to some extent by having several things in
one package.

[Sidenote: Who is responsible]

We pack with care and deliver to carrier in good condition. That is all
we can do. Beyond that the risk is yours. We register packages going by
mail if you send the registry fee, ten cents a package, in addition to
postage.

[Sidenote: What is a new subscription]

We pay for new subscriptions; not for renewals. What is the difference?
A new one is that of a family not on our list before.

We pay premiums in good faith. We expect them to be earned in good
faith. A subscriber may stop one magazine and become a new subscriber
to another; but change of a magazine from one name to another in a
family is not a new subscription. Your own subscription (if new) may
count with others (not alone) for premiums. We have got to draw the
line somewhere. We don’t reckon too closely, nor suspect bad faith too
readily. We prefer to deal a little generously; but we don’t intend to
be really imposed upon.

[Sidenote: Direct to D. Lothrop Company]

To be entitled to premiums you must send subscriptions direct to the
publishers, not to another agent. We don’t pay twice for the same
subscription.

[Sidenote: Whose agent you are]

You are entrusted with money for us by the subscribers you get. You are
their agent, not ours. Be faithful to them. Send their names and money
as soon as you get them. You are responsible to them till we get the
names, addresses and money together. Then you are free.

[Sidenote: When a subscription begins]

Subscriptions begin at any time. If you neglect to name a date, we
guess as well as we can.

The volumes begin as follows: _Wide Awake_, December and June;
_Chautauqua Young Folks’ Journal_, December; _Pansy_, November; _Our
Little Men and Women_, January; _Babyland_, January.

[Sidenote: Requirements]

No deviation in prices; no credit (send name, address and money
together); remit by post-office money order, by American Express
Company’s money order, by registered letter or by bank check (postage
stamps may be sent in registered letters for change); write plainly and
fully; give subscribers’ full addresses (they may be different); sign
your name and give your full address in every communication.

The foregoing relates to premiums sent within the United States.

[Sidenote: Beyond the United States]

To the British North American Colonies other premiums have to be sent
by express, the receiver paying whatever costs the tariff may impose;
but magazines and books may be sent to these colonies by mail. There is
a duty on books; not on magazines.

[Sidenote: Premiums for sale]

Things in the List are also sold for money, payment in advance, no
discount, no charge for packing, sent at receiver’s cost and risk.

[Sidenote: Delays]

Wait for return mail and a week besides before you conclude your letter
or our reply has gone astray; then write particulars: date of your
sending, how you remitted, how much.

[Sidenote: The first thing to do]

The first step to take is to send us 15 cents for specimen copies of
all five magazines, subscription blanks and other helps.

    D LOTHROP COMPANY
    PUBLISHERS OF BOOKS AND MAGAZINES
    BOSTON


PREMIUM LIST OF THE LOTHROP MAGAZINES


[Illustration]

Jack-straws, two sets. Prices 25 and 50 cents; for 30 and 60 cents
in new subscriptions. Postage 3 cents. One set contains more pieces
and also more sorts—ladders, spades, hoes, mallets, arrows, etc., of
variously-colored wood.

Cultivates delicate handling and ingenuity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Puzzle Map of the United States, on oblong paper blocks to be matched
together. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 6
cents.

Teaches what we elders need to study—where the States are.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Frisky Cow. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 44 cents—express may be less. Size 6 by 8 by 12 inches.

For little people. Johnny rolls the ball and hits the knob on the
right, rings a bell and counts 10. Susan hits the middle knob, counts
20, and the cow jumps over the moon.

[Illustration]

One of the jolliest toys we know of.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shadow Transformations. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 6 cents.

Figures cut out of cards cast shadows from any sort of light. The
shadows are silhouette pictures. The combinations are hundreds. There
is more fun in them than we can put on paper.

Stimulates invention and design; for nobody stops with these cards.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toy Money in a cash-box. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 4 cents.

[Illustration]

The coins are printed card-board copies like the picture, only full
size.

“Playing store” teaches the little merchants a great deal more than
arithmetic; and how can they make change without money?

       *       *       *       *       *

Historiscope. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 10
cents.

[Illustration: BRADLEY’S HISTORISCOPE]

A panorama of scenes in American history, with a brief “lecture.” You
turn that little crank, and the “lecture” explains the pictures.

       *       *       *       *       *

American Toy Village. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage
12 cents.

[Illustration]

The buildings etc., which are painted wood, may be arranged on the
lithographed “plan” as in the picture, or on a table, or lawn, or sand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Words and Sentences, a game, variations of which are known by several
other names, Logomachy, War of Words, etc. Price 25 or 50 cents; for
30 or 60 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 3 cents and 7 cents. Two
styles, one more substantial than the other and in wood box.

[Illustration: N A M E]

A family game by no means confined to children. Cultivates knowledge of
words and facility in their use.

       *       *       *       *       *

Checker Men. Price 10 cents; for 15 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
7 cents.

[Illustration]

Thirty double-face pieces 1¼ inches diameter.

       *       *       *       *       *

Halma. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 22 cents.

[Illustration]

“The only important board game purely of skill invented since checkers
and chess.” Introduced two years ago and said to be very popular. Large
flat folding paper board and box with men and instructions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chess, Checkers and Halma in one. Price $1.75; for $2 in new
subscriptions. Goes by express.

Checker board on one side, halma on the other, with cherry frame and
trough for the men, 19x19 inches: chess, checkers and halma men and
directions for halma.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carpet Bowls. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 32 cents.

[Illustration]

Like quoits, except that the balls are rolled instead of tossed, and
the hub is a ball that gets moved about as the game goes on.

       *       *       *       *       *

Snap. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 4
cents.

Teaches quickness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Social Hours. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 10 cents.

A pamphlet of games, tricks, illusions and puzzles, with a box of
requisite things to play with. A very large number; too many to count.

       *       *       *       *       *

Matched Pictures, scenes in the far West. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents
in new subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

[Illustration]

Forty oblong pieces go together in a great many ways and make as many
different pictures.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s Dressmaking Bazaar. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 25 cents.

Paper dolls’ heads, arms, legs, dress-stuffs, laces, ornaments; an
immense variety. Patterns to cut by. Instructions. The figures are
handsomely lithographed on varnished paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Interchangeable Combination Circus. Price 75 cents; for 90 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 20 cents.

[Illustration]

A set of sectional pictures. The circus performs whatever part of the
programme you choose amid the huzzahs of the spectators.

       *       *       *       *       *

Evening Party. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 6 cents.

A boxful of games, puzzles, charades, rebuses, tricks, conundrums,
etc.; a houseful of frolic and fun.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Checker and Backgammon boards, hinged boxes, with dice-cups and men.
No 1, 8x14 inches closed, price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 25 cents. No. 2, 7x12, price 75 cents; for 90 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 20 cents. No. 3, 6x10½, price 50 cents; for 60
cents in new subscriptions. Postage 12 cents. They differ also in wood
and finish.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kindergarten souvenir-material (Bradley’s). Tinted card with diagrams
and colored illustrations, by which children are taught to cut, fold,
embroider and make a great variety of beautiful useful things. A
generous boxful. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 26
cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Chess Men. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
10 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Building Blocks. Price 25 and 50 cents; for 30 and 60 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 30 and 60 cents. Express may be less.

[Illustration]

As many blocks as cents; not painted.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fascinator, balls and cues, indoors or out. The boys will know the rest
from the picture. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration: FASCINATOR]

Teaches skill with eye and hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kindergarten Occupation. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 32 cents.

[Illustration: MILTON BRADLEY & Co SPRINGFIELD, MASS.

GEMS FROM THE

Kindergarten

FOR HOME

OCCUPATION]

Weaving, embroidering, ring-laying, stick-laying, etc. A large box of
materials with instructions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pitch-a-Ring and Ring Toss. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 40 cents—express may be less.

[Illustration]

The rings are made pretty and soft with plaiting of colored cotton, and
the box they come in serves for base.

       *       *       *       *       *

Go Bang, Tivoli, and Fox and Geese. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new
subscriptions. Postage 33 cents.

[Illustration]

Leather-covered two-book-shape box, 2x7½x14 inches, turned wood men.

       *       *       *       *       *

Parcheesi. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 25 cents.

[Illustration: HOME]

Size of closed board 9½x18½x⅜ inches. Brass-bound paper men; dice-boxes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Checkered Game of Life. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

Size of closed board 8x16⅜ inches; wood men; counters; teetotum.

       *       *       *       *       *

Set of Games No. 1 containing each in a box: A lot of puzzles; Old
Maid; Round Up; Five Senses; Old Salt’s Yarn; Auction; Scramble;
Steeple-Chase. Price 15 cents each; any three for 50 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents each.

       *       *       *       *       *

Set of Games No. 2 containing each in a little box: Old Maid; Jack
Straws; Fortunes; Seth Spook’s Visit to Chicago; Beast, Bird, Fish; Go
Bang; Selected Authors; Riddles; Optical Illusions; Tortoise and Hare;
Siege; Historical Dates. 6 cents each; any four for 30 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 5 cents for the four.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: GAME OF

OLD MAID IMPROVED

MILTON BRADLEY & Co SPRINGFIELD MASS]

Old Maid improved. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 4 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Solitaire. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
25 cents.

[Illustration]

With bowls for marbles in play and a drawer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perfection folding table. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
By express.

[Illustration]

Top 19x30 inches and adjustable to eight heights between 23½ and 29
inches. Half-yard inch measure and checkers on it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Postage-stamp album with classified spaces for 2400 stamps and 264
engravings. Price 50 cents (cloth binding 75 cents); for 60 cents in
new subscriptions (cloth binding for 90 cents). Postage 5 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

One hundred postage stamps to begin with; price 25 cents; for 30 cents
in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Savings Bank. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 17
cents.

[Illustration: JIG DANCIN

ONE CENT]

The music and dancing last half a minute after a penny is put into it.
Goes by clock-work. Well made and not likely to get out of order. The
music is imaginary, except the clatter of the dancer’s feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Printing outfit. Price $2.50; for $3 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration: FAVORITE

FAVORITE PRINTING PRESS AND OUTFIT

CARDS INK TYPE PALLET FURNITURE GOLD

THE FAVORITE PRINTING PRESS & OUTFIT]

Consists of a practical press of the slightest possible character,
roller, one font of type, one case, leads, furniture, ink and fifty
cards. Weight of the whole in a box about seven pounds. A boy with the
requisite printing wit can do small jobs with it. Size of chase 2x3½
inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Woods Air Line Gun. Price $1; for $1.10 in new subscriptions. Postage
30 cents.

The “barrel” is a straight wire; the bullet a wood spool; the force a
coil of steel wire. Target with pocket to catch the bullets. Also a
torpedo target.

Bullets for the Woods gun; 25 for 10 cents; for 15 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 5 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s Britannia Tea-set. Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 12 cents.

[Illustration]

About 20 pieces, teapot 3 inches high.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sand-mill, that is, a water-wheel driven by sand instead of water, with
a wooden man pretending to turn the crank outside. The mechanical boy
will rig a pulley and get a good deal of work out of it. Sand play is
the chief amusement of children at the seaside.

Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Toy scales 6½ inches long. Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 17 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: Geo. H. Walker & Co. Boston.]

Locomotive and tender of malleable iron japanned and gilt.
Connecting-rods work, wheels turn and bell rings. 20 inches long, and
weighs seven pounds. None so substantial and life-like ever made before
for anything like the money. Price $2; for $2.50 in new subscriptions.
Western orders filled from Chicago to save express.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whistle. Price 30 cents; for 35 cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Celluloid; looks like ivory. Trills.

       *       *       *       *       *

Musical top. Price 30 cents; for 35 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
4 cents.

[Illustration]

Reeds inside of it, sing as it spins and change their notes with a
touch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Locomotive 12-inch. Price $2; for $2.50 in new subscriptions. Postage
35 cents.

[Illustration: WHISTLER]

Goes by clock-work. Gong in the cab rings loudly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Locomotive engine 10 inches long. Price $1; for $1.25 in new
subscriptions. Postage 30 cents.

Goes by clock-work. Bell does not ring.

       *       *       *       *       *

Weeden engine. Price $1.25; for $1.35 in new subscriptions. Postage 35
cents.

[Illustration: RUSSELL & RICHARDSON S C]

Quite an elaborate, handsome and well-made engine, 8½ inches high,
with safety-valve, whistle, smoke-stack, thumb-screws to let steam on
and off and to whistle, heavy fly-wheel and double pulley. Goes half
an hour with one firing and watering. Made of nickeled tin and brass.
Power enough for a great variety of play-work.

       *       *       *       *       *

Engine. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 5
cents.

[Illustration: HERO]

A little rough; but a boy can whittle it smooth; 5 inches high; with
all the necessary parts. Goes as long as the water and alcohol last and
drives a little light machinery. Even this is enough to find out a boy
with mechanical bent.

       *       *       *       *       *

Propeller “Neptune,” an iron boat 10 inches long with a working engine
strong enough to drive it briskly across the mill-pond for 20 or 30
minutes. Not really iron; mostly brass; the hull painted black with red
stripe along the gunwale. A saucy craft, but not at all dangerous.

[Illustration: NEPTUNE]

Price $2.25; for $2.50 in new subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Revolving Wall Blackboard and desk slate. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents
in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Size 16½x17 inches, including frame and trough for eraser and crayons.
Outline designs on frame for drawing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s Folding Chair. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

[Illustration]

Natural cherry, surprisingly well made and smooth. The seat is of
pretty cretonne. Total height 11½ inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s High Chair with table-leaf and wood tea-set. Price 25 cents; for
30 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 11 cents.

[Illustration]

Daintily made of fine white-wood printed to imitate cane seat, etc.

It comes “flat;” and dolly’s maternal uncle puts it together.
Foot-and-a-half high.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s Chamber Set. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Cherry, four pieces: bedstead 17x8x9 inches, bureau with bright tin
mirror, pretty folding chair and table. All come “flat” and go together
beautifully.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Doll’s Carriage. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 8 cents. A folding easy chair on wheels; fine white-wood;
pretty cretonne seat; arms of bright silk cord.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dolly’s Own Album of nearly two hundred transfer pictures; 7 cents; for
10 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Folding Desk Blackboard with rolling sheet of more than a hundred
designs for drawing. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Height 3 feet; blackboard 14x18 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s Cradle. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

White-wood, 7½ x 8½ x 16 inches. Comes “flat.”

       *       *       *       *       *

Sliced Animals. Price 30 cents; for 40 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 12 cents.

[Illustration: ZEBRA]

Colored pictures of animals on strips of card-board with letters on one
end. When the strips are put together right the animal’s name is there
too.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sliced Objects. Price 30 cents; for 40 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 12 cents.

Yacht, engine, boat, car, fort, church, house, dam, bridge, coach,
fountain, statue; all on strips and mixed together.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sliced Birds. Price 30 cents; for 40 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 12 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Britannia Collapsing Cup in a tin box. Price 20 cents; for 25 cents in
new subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Nickeled Collapsing Cup in a watch-case. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents
in new subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dominoes. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 15
cents.

In neat and substantial wood box.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Triumph toy Clothes-wringer, handy for small pieces as well as for
dolly’s things. Rolls three inches long. Works perfectly. Price 50
cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Doll, No. 204, 20½-inches high, undressed, except chemise trimmed with
lace and ribbon, bisque head, arms and legs, washable. Price $1.25; for
$1.50 in new subscriptions. Postage 30 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dressed Doll Nellie, 14 inches high, in full summer dress set off with
lace and ribbons, hat, lace hose and leather shoes; bisque head, arms
and legs. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions. Postage 25 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

In-door Ball. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Very light rubber, 3¼-inch blown up.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s Tea-set. Price $1.25; for $1.60 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

China, gayly decorated, 20 to 25 pieces. Cups about 2 inches across;
tea-pot 5 inches high.

       *       *       *       *       *

Drawing Teacher. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 7 cents.

[Illustration]

Thick paper stencils for pencil drawings; designs; a supply of suitable
paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Drum. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Hammered brass body; sheepskin heads; red-white-and-blue cords and
belt; 13 inch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Daisy Ten-pins. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 30 cents.

[Illustration]

The pins are lithographed figures of boys and girls in holiday dress
and the balls are solid gilt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tin Kitchen. Price 60 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
30 cents.

[Illustration: BREAD]

Size 7x12x4 inches; about 20 pieces; pump pumps water.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fire Engine. Price $6; for $6.50 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Pumps from a reservoir, and at the same time throws a continuous
stream. Consists of boiler, engine, force-pump, water and steam gauges,
air-chamber, hose and hose-pipe. Size 5x10½x9 inches, exclusive of
pole. The machine is an excellent one; the engraving is not a good one.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s Head No. 38-24, bisque, 3 inches across shoulders. Price 30
cents; for 40 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: No. 710]

Doll’s Head No. 710, bisque, 3½ inch, closing eyes, fine curls. Price
75 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions. Postage 8 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doll’s Wash-set. Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 30 cents.

[Illustration]

Tub 9 x 5 inches. The wringer does not wring.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fairy Sewing-machine. Price $3; for $3.25 in new subscriptions. Postage
35 cents.

[Illustration: FAIRY]

Actually sews, and is really useful to put in one’s trunk for a summer
trip—the best of hand sewing-machines are silly at home.

This isn’t silly, because it teaches dolly’s mamma to cut and make her
own dresses. An excellent play-thing for an industrious little girl,
though we suppose it is made for serious use. Size 5x6 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Japanese Tivoli, Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 20 cents.

[Illustration]

Jap lies on his back, heels up, with a marble in the bowl on his boots,
Tommy touches the spring and counts according to where the marble goes.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: TOLEDO BLADE]

Large Jack-knife. Price 75 cents; for 90 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 4 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bull’s-eye lantern. Price 75 cents; for 90 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 20 cents.

[Illustration]

For hand or belt; 3-inch lens.

       *       *       *       *       *

A good photographing outfit complete for $2.50—Horsman’s “Eclipse”—for
$2.75 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration: HYPO

HORSMANS ECLIPSE PHOTOGRAPH OUTFIT

CAMERA, DRY PLATES CHEMICALS, PRINTING FRAME —SENSITIZED PAPER— CARD
MOUNTS &c. &c. &c. —COMPLETE FOR $2.50.

RIPLEY PLATES CARDS TRAY 1 TRAY 2]

There is no better for less than $10. It is not good enough to take
portraits. It is good enough for views containing persons or groups.
That is, it gives attitudes and aspects perfectly; not the fine
details of expression and feature. For ten cents we send two specimen
photographs (largest size, 3x4 inches) taken with it.

An average boy or girl of twelve years can use it successfully and make
about as good pictures with it as with any $10 camera.

The outfit consists of a small camera covered with imitation morocco,
six rapid dry plates, two japanned-iron trays, two bottles of
developer, package of hypo-sulphite of soda, printing-frame, six sheets
of silvered and six of blue-print paper, bottle of toning solution,
dozen card mounts, plate-lifter, sheet of ruby paper, directions for
making a cheap ruby lamp, and full instructions for every part of the
work. Weight about 3½ pounds; postage 60 cents—express may be less.

After supplies—Particulars in a circular sent on request.

       *       *       *       *       *

Foot-ball, two sizes, 6 and 9 inch. Prices $1 and $1.50; for $1.25 and
$1.75 in new subscriptions. Postage on either 10 cents.

[Illustration]

Made of heavy canvas coated with rubber, stout, blown up with key.

       *       *       *       *       *

Village Blacksmith. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 10 cents.

[Illustration]

The blower works the bellows and the blacksmith wields his hammer.
Worked by the engine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fishing outfit. Price $1.15; for $1.35 in new subscriptions. Postage 20
cents.

12-foot jointed rod, brass tips and ferrules, bob, sinkers, 36-foot
line, dozen assorted hooks, pickerel trolling-hook, ganged hooks with
hair or gut snell, flies, and bait-box. Neat and substantial.

       *       *       *       *       *

“Winchester” double-barrel Rifle. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration: WINCHESTER RIFLE]

A rather easy gun. Covered-rubber spring.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wilcox target Gun. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 20
cents.

[Illustration: WILCOX]

Covered-rubber spring; removable cross-piece; bayonet; breech box for
darts and targets.

       *       *       *       *       *

“Dr. Carver” Gun. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 17 cents.

[Illustration: DOCTOR CARVER PATENTED]

A savage rubber-spring gun adjustable as to force.

       *       *       *       *       *

“World” Type-Writer. Price $8; for $10 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

It is with gratification as complete as it was unexpected that we put
this machine in the list.

It prints more neatly and perfectly than the Remington; not so fast and
not so easily. A scholar’s type-writer; a type-writer for business not
requiring speed or amount of work. Whoever wants a type-writer but has
too little use for it to justify paying a hundred dollars for it, he is
the man or woman, boy or girl for whom this machine is exactly right.

Nobody wants to take the time to acquire facility with a type-writer
that amounts to nothing after he has learned it. The limit of the value
of the “World” is its speed; which is from twenty to thirty words a
minute. We hear that sixty words a minute has been attained. We are
sure of thirty. Weight in box 5 lbs.

We are not permitted to sell it for money; only with subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wringer with folding bench. Price $6; for $6.50 in new subscriptions.

Better than a tub wringer can be; handier; more substantial. Altogether
the best of wringing devices. Folds into small floor-space. The proper
place for it is where the family does its own work and wants the best
facilities.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Wringer. Price $2.75; for $3.50 in new subscriptions. The simplest of
all the wringers. You put it on the tub; and the wringing pressure is
on. Take it off the tub; and the pressure is off the rolls. For this
reason the rolls are less likely to be injured by careless or ignorant
treatment than those of any other style of wringer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Orchestra. Price $1; $1.10 in new subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

[Illustration]

Lithographed figures on blocks worked by cranks and a belt from the
engine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Musician. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 5
cents.

[Illustration]

Worked by a belt from the engine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sawyer. Price 40 cents; for 50 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 3
cents.

[Illustration]

Worked by a belt from the engine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bradley’s Authors. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 7 cents.

[Illustration: 18

A

CHARLES DICKENS.

    Dombey and Son
    Pickwick Papers.
    Oliver Twist.

Born 1812—Died 1870]

The best game of the name [there are many]; and best material;
waterproof cards.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tennis outfit. Price $20; for $30 in new subscriptions.

Consists of 4 “Standard” rackets, 6 regulation balls, regulation net
36x3 feet, poles, guys, ropes, pegs, mallet and book of the game.

       *       *       *       *       *

“Standard” tennis racket. Price $3; for $4 in new subscriptions.
Postage 15 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: PEERLESS]

“Peerless” tennis racket. Price $5.50; for $7.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 15 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Croquet outfit for eight players. Price $3; for $4 in new subscriptions.

Maple.

       *       *       *       *       *

Luminous Match-safe. Price 20 cents; for 25 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 3 cents.

[Illustration: MATCHES

BURNT

GOOD

SAFETY]

The word MATCHES shines at night enough to guide you to the box.

       *       *       *       *       *

Monogram-stamping outfit. Two letters 50 cents, three letters 80 cents;
for 60 cents and $1 in new subscriptions. Postage on either 5 cents.

[Illustration: BLACK INK

RED INK

BRONZE

INK PADS]

Consists of rubber stamp (whatever letters you want—size of letter
½-inch), indelible ink for clothing, red ink, bronze, and pads.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: TRADE MARK]

Watson’s book-carrier. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 8 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Set of four rubber combs in a handy box. Price 50 cents; for 65 cents
in new subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

[Illustration]

Coarse comb, fine comb, child’s comb, pocket comb.

       *       *       *       *       *

Stamping outfit for embroidery etc., a generous one. The maker calls it
$5-worth, but sells it for $1. For $1.10 in new subscriptions.

Daisy alphabet 2½ inches high; roses 8x14; pond lilies 17x7½; pansies
3½x6; stork 7x11; bird and cherries 6x7; etc, etc. (large enough
pieces); powder, pads, instructions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pocket-knife No. 836. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 4 cents.

[Illustration: T.B. TERRY & CO]

Pearl handle, fine, substantial, 3 inches long.

       *       *       *       *       *

Magic Pocket-knife. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 2 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Chased rubber handle with nickeled trimmings. A dainty knife of
middling quality; not a whittler. Hold the blade-end down and press on
top; the blade pops “open.” Reverse to “shut” it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Button-hole shears. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 3 cents.

[Illustration: TERRY & CO TOLEDO O.

WARRANTY UNLIMITED.]

Adjustable for length of hole with a gauge for distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shears. Price 80 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

[Illustration: TERRY & CO. TOLEDO O.

PAT.’D APR. 21ST 85.]

Japanned handles and nickeled blades; length 8 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scissors. Price 80 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

Nickeled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ladies’ pearl-handle Knife. Price $1.50; for $1.75 in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

[Illustration]

Terry’s; length 2½ inches; fine design and finish.

       *       *       *       *       *

Magic Slate-cleaner; price 6 cents; for 10 cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration: HORTON’S MAGIC SLATE CLEANER PAT’D FEB. 22, 1887]

A wood water-bottle with a valve in the cork and a sponge on the side.
You touch the slate with the point and let out a drop of water. Then
the sponge.

       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration: PLAIN POCKET

LIFE SIZE.

CAW’S PEN]

Caw Stylographic Pen. Price $1.50; for $1.75 in new subscriptions.
Postage 3 cents.

To one who writes much a stylograph is a great convenience. It is
really an ink-pencil. There are many makes. The Caw is the simplest;
very likely the best, for dealers say that nobody finds any fault with
it.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Ladies’ gold pen with pearl holder. Price $2.25; for $3.00 in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Gold-plated pencil. Price 50 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Gold-plated pencil watch-charm. Price 50 cents; for 75 cents in new
subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perfection Hammock—and the hammock is as good as its name—knotted all
through and does not slip; soft, elastic, abundantly strong, with
galvanized iron rings at the ends. A perfect hammock.

[Illustration: BAY STATE HAMMOCK

“PERFECTION”]

    Number  Size     Price in money   Price in new subscriptions   Postage
      A1   5x14 ft.      $4                   $5                   $0.60
       1   4½x13       2.50                 3                     .60
       2       4x12       1.75                 2.50                  .40
       3   3½x11       1.50                 2                     .25
       4       3x11       1.10                 1.50                  .20

There is as much difference in hammocks as in “easy” chairs. Some are
anything but easy. Nobody knows how easy a hammock can be till he has
gone to sleep in this Perfection.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hammock-spreader. Price 35 cents a pair; for 50 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 25 cents.

A hammock is twice as good with a spreader.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is an outside door-mat so good that every civilized door where
muddy feet have to come—there are thousands of such—will have it sooner
or later. And one is enough; for it lasts forever.

There is nothing else a tenth so good. It almost keeps itself clean. A
jar dislodges the worst and thickest of mud.

[Illustration]

The Hartman steel-wire mat. An open springy texture of wire to scrape
on—galvanized spring-steel wire—no rust, no wear—like a wire mattress
but thicker and closer. You scrape on it, step on it, stamp on it,
tramp on it fearlessly. The stickiest mud becomes innocent dust
underneath and is swept away next morning. A pretty full account of it
sent on request.

The price of the mat is $4, more or less according to size. The $4
size is a good one, 22x30 inches. You earn it by getting $4.50 in new
subscriptions. To save express we send it from the manufacturer’s
nearest office nearest to you.

[Illustration: AN INCH OR TWO AT THE CORNER OF IT, BOTH SIDES ALIKE.]

The makers are doing their best to supply the quick demand from the
cities. They would be overwhelmed if the country were equally ready.
But where is a perfect mat most useful, where there are pavements or no
pavements?

       *       *       *       *       *

Postage-stamp holder inside your pocket-book. Price 15 cents; for 20
cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Nickel; the picture shows it open inside a pocket-book. Handy out of
all proportions to its cost.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bissell Carpet-sweeper. Price $3; for $3.25 in new subscriptions.

Not a housewife rich enough to own a carpet would do without a sweeper
if she knew how great relief a good one brings on sweeping and dusting
day.

[Illustration: BISSELL’S

GRAND RAPIDS

FULLER-STOWE Co]

It sweeps cleaner than a broom and easier, makes no dust, and does
nine-tenths of the work, leaving only an inch or two along the sides
of a room and little corners—these must be swept with a broom—and it
drops the dust with a touch on a spring as shown in the picture. That
band around the sweeper is a rubber cushion to keep it from bruising
furniture.

Three-fourths of all the carpet-sweepers in the world are made by one
factory, the Bissell Carpet-Sweeper Company, Grand Rapids, Michigan. Of
course they make good ones. The fact is, they control the really useful
inventions and nobody else is allowed to make good sweepers at all. But
their prices are fair.

There are several styles and sizes. We choose the best brush with
common finish.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cabinet Book-rack. Price $2; for $2.25 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Maple, fine finish, brass trimmings, lock, and goes together without
nail or screws; 24x23x6½ inches; packs flat.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shawl-strap. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
6 cents.

[Illustration]

The tapes are tightened by turning the handle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Common shawl-strap. Price 35 cents; for 50 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 6 cents.

[Illustration]

Leather handle and straps to buckle.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Desk and blackboard in one. Price $2; for $2.50 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Ash with walnut trimmings, top of enameled cloth, lock, pigeon-holes,
25x25x19 inches; packs flat.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

“Favorite” table with drawer, top of enameled cloth, 31x27x19 inches,
chestnut. Price $1.50; for $1.75 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration:

    TRIPLE MOTION
    WHITE MOUNTAIN
    ICE CREAM FREEZER
]

Ice-cream Freezer, the best one we know of. 2-quart; price $2.25; for
$2.75 in new subscriptions. 3-quart; price $2.75; for $3.25 in new
subscriptions. 4-quart; price $3.50; for $4 in new subscriptions.
6-quart; price $4.25; for $5 in new subscriptions. 10-quart; price
$7.75; for $8.75 in new subscriptions. Made every way for the very best
results. The tub of clear pine made waterproof; the metallic parts of
malleable iron plated with tin. [Zinc makes a poisonous oxide.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Kaleidoscope. Price $3; for $3.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 30
cents.

[Illustration]

The name is meant to signify sights of beauty. The kaleidoscope is a
maker of sights of beauty. We are indebted to it for combinations of
color and form in geometrical decorations. Chance is at the bottom of
them all. By taking out two small screws you get at the easy secret.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Spy-glass 15 inches long drawn out and 6 shut up, inch object-glass,
magnifies 13 times (the maker says). Price $2.50; for $3.25 in new
subscriptions. Postage 12 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spy-glass a trifle larger, magnifies 16 times (the maker says). Price
$3.50; for $4.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 13 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spy-glass 30 inches long drawn out and 10 shut up, 1⅝-inch object
glass, said to magnify 25 times. Price $7; for $8.50 in new
subscriptions. Postage 50 cents—express may be less.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Two lenses mounted in brass; one of highest possible power for
transparent objects; the other with larger field on stand for general
use. Price of both together 50 cents. For 60 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Pocket Magnifying Glass, three lenses, horn case. Price 90 cents; for
$1.10 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Square Reading-glass. Price $2; for $2.25 in new subscriptions. Postage
10 cents.

[Illustration]

1¾x3½-inch double-convex lens.

       *       *       *       *       *

Reading-glass. Price $1.50; for $1.75 in new subscriptions. Postage 10
cents.

[Illustration]

2⅞-inch lens.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Stereoscope on pillar. Price $1.25, for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 25 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Better Stereoscope. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 20 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Half-dozen Stereoscopic Views. Price 40 cents; for 50 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 5 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Microscope. Price 60 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
4 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Microscope No. 42½. Price 85 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions.
Postage 4 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: BLOWER NICKEL PLATED TILTING TABLE]

Lester Scroll Saw and Lathe. Price $10; for $12 in new subscriptions.

Considered the best and most complete of the saws to be got for less
than $20.

With nickeled tilting table; roller in table back of the saw which
makes it run remarkably true; clamps hold any thickness of saw; clamps
adjustable right or left, forward or back so that the blade can be
kept in perfect line; with 3-inch circular saw on 3x4-inch iron table
capable of cutting half-inch lumber; solid emery wheel; drilling
attachment with six Stubbs drills; lathe attachment with iron ways and
rests, steel centers and three fine turning tools—length of bed 15
inches, distance between centers 9 inches, swing 3 inches, length of
slide-rest 4 inches; six saw-blades, wrench, screw-driver, two sheets
of designs; neat box for small tools; guide.

A very important recent invention used in this machine is a clamp
and strainer in one, by which at a touch of a lever the saw-blade is
instantly clamped and strained. The remarkable accuracy of this saw is
due to the roller in the table, another recent invention.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bracket-saw outfit. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 18 cents.

Nickeled spring-steel saw-frame 5x12 inches with peculiar clamps, six
saw-blades, awl, sheet carbon paper, fifty designs full-size.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bracket-work Drill No. 4. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 12 cents.

[Illustration]

Iron 8-inch drill-stock, steel chuck and six points.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carving-tools. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 10
cents.

[Illustration]

Rosewood handles, fine tools and ready sharp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rogers Scroll Saw. Price $3.50; for $4.25 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

The best of the low-price saws.

All iron; neatly japanned; parts interchangeable; bearings in
perfect line; with blower; jointed stretcher-rod; clamps with hinged
jaw, which avoids the overthrow of the blade, friction, strain and
frequent breaking; 4¼-inch balance-wheel with rim of solid emery;
drilling attachment on the right; and the whole machine is secured by
screw-bolts wherever needed—no pins; six saw-blades, wrench, sheet
of designs, three drill points. Rich in appearance, compact, strong,
effective, easy, firm and durable. Weight in box 36 pounds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Key-hole Saw and ½ dozen blades. Price 40 cents; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 5 cents.

[Illustration]

The blade, which is 8½ inches long, can be set in the handle so that
only the point projects.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Saw-blades, ½ gross assorted sizes. Price 65 cents; given for 85 cents
in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Manual of Wood-carving by Charles Leland. Price 35 cents; for 50 cents
in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Graves’ Automatic Drill-stock and dozen points. Price $1; for $1.25 in
new subscriptions. Postage 5 cents.

[Illustration]

Drills with one hand the most delicate wood without splitting. Can be
used where bit-brace, gimlet or brad-awl are not available.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Glass-cutter, Knife-sharpener, Can-opener, Cork-screw. Price 10 cents;
for 15 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tool-holder No. 5. Price $1.50; for $2 in new subscriptions. Postage 10
cents.

[Illustration]

Rosewood 7½-inch handle holds the tools; nickeled steel chuck; nine
fine 4-inch tools. Indispensable.

       *       *       *       *       *

Glass-cutter and Putty-knife. Price 10 cents; for 15 cents in new
subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Better than diamond in inexperienced hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

Numerical frame; 60 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
25 cents.

An arithmetic school as well as a pretty and interesting plaything. The
frame is maple; the balls red, green and black.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tip-Top self-inking one-line Stamp. Price 60 cents; for 70 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 4 cents.

[Illustration]

With two lines of type; 75 cents; for 85 cents in new subscriptions.

With three lines of small type; 85 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wax night-lights. Price 40 cents for a dozen box; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 8 cents.

Burn eight hours apiece with a steady little light, no smoke or smell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Night lamp with shade to soften the light. Price $1; for $1.25 in new
subscriptions. Postage 23 cents.

[Illustration]

For burning wax lights. Not necessary; the lights may stand in a
saucer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Family printing-outfit for marking linen, printing cards, etc. Price
$1.50; for $2 in new subscriptions. Postage 11 cents.

[Illustration: INDELIBLE INK]

Nickeled holder, movable rubber type on metal body, pads, tweezers,
indelible ink.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dover Egg-beater. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

The best there is for few eggs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Binder for magazines. Price 75 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions.
Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

Almost like book-binding, as shown in the cut. One style stamped Wide
Awake; another The Pansy.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Ready Binder for papers and pamphlets; length 8 inches. Price 8 cents;
for 10 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lambie’s Dictionary holder. Price $5; for $5.50 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Beyond all comparison the best of them all. Adjustable to size of book,
to height of stand, and angle at which the book is held. Revolves. On
casters.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beginnings with the Microscope, a working handbook, by Walter P.
Manton, M. D. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Practical Boat-Sailing, on small boats and yachts, with vocabulary
of nautical terms, by Douglas Frazar. Price $1; for $1.20 in new
subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hunter’s Handbook, by an old hunter. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in
new subscriptions.

Hints about camping out and life in the woods.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Handbook of Wood Engraving, by William A. Emerson, wood engraver. Price
$1; for $1.20 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Taxidermy without a Teacher: an illustrated book of instruction on
preparing and preserving birds, animals, fishes, eggs and skeletons;
with recipes. By Walter P. Manton. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Field Botany, an illustrated hand-book for the collector, containing
instruction for gathering and preserving plants for the herbarium, also
instructions in leaf-photography, plant-printing and the skeletonizing
of leaves. By Walter P. Manton. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lessons in Candy Making. By Catherine Owen. Price 50 cents; for 60
cents in new subscriptions.

The author says “I have written these lessons for intelligent women
who cannot leave home to help them make money.” And she quotes from an
Englishwoman pupil-reader “I can make as delicious candies as ever I
ate in Paris.”

For a like reason we put her book in the List.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Insects: how to catch and prepare them for the Cabinet; an illustrated
book of instructions for the field naturalist. By Walter P. Manton.
Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shakespeare. Price $8; for $10 in new subscriptions. By express at
receiver’s cost.

Handy Volume edition; 13 small volumes, flexible, cloth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mayflower Pocket Cook-stove and Boiler. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in
new subscriptions. Postage 10 cents.

[Illustration]

All nickeled; burns about ½ hour.

       *       *       *       *       *

Larger Pocket Cook-stove. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 20 cents.

With quart boiler and gridiron. Boils water enough for a cup of coffee
in five minutes.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Alcohol-flask for pocket stove. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 5 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lambie’s revolving Book-stand and Dictionary-holder. Price $9; for $10
in new subscriptions. By express.

[Illustration]

Size of book-case 16x16 inches. The upper shelf is available also.

       *       *       *       *       *

Universal Garden-tool. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 35 cents—express may be less.

[Illustration]

Many good tools in one: the hoe is also a spade, shovel, scraper and
ice-cutter; the rake is also a fork and hook—there may be other uses.
The dotted lines show the positions of both on the handle.


WHITING’S INDELIBLE INK COLORS Etc.

We commend the following seven with all the more satisfaction because
the market is full of pretentious stuff under similar names but of
very little value. These are exactly what the descriptions call for.
Circular sent on request.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whiting’s Indelible Laundry Ink, for marking without preparation. Price
25 cents; for 35 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whiting’s Magic Indelible Ink, for marking difficult stuffs without
exposure to sun or heat. Price 60 cents; for 80 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 10 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Whiting’s Etching Ink for etching on linen, with supply of pens and
“preparation.” Price $1; for $1.10 in new subscriptions. Postage 10
cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whiting’s Tracing-box. Price $1; for $1.35 in new subscriptions.

The glass is 8x12 inches. Must go by express.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whiting’s Etching Designs at the rate of $1 for $1.10 in new
subscriptions. List sent on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whiting’s Transparent Colors for coloring photographs; box of ten
colors. Price $3; for $3.25 in new subscriptions.

Half-case with five colors. Price $1.75; for $2 in new subscriptions.
Must go by express.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whiting’s Special Instructions for etching on linen. Price $1; for
$1.10 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Towel-holder. Price 15 cents; for 20 cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration: AUTOMATIC TOWEL HOLDER]

Nickel; about the size of a silver dollar.

       *       *       *       *       *

Splasher-bracket. Price 30 cents; for 35 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 7 cents.

[Illustration]

Black inch pegs; nickeled 33-inch rod.

       *       *       *       *       *

Towel-bracket. Price 30 cents; for 35 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 6 cents.

[Illustration]

The pegs are enameled black; the rod is bright nickel, 18 inches long.

       *       *       *       *       *

Roll Dressing-case. Price $6; for $7.50 in new subscriptions. Postage
15 cents.

[Illustration]

Box dressing-case. Price $6; for $7.50 in new subscriptions. Postage 15
cents.

Both the above are neat and substantial leather cases with first-class
furnishings, but without extravagance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perfection Lemon-Squeezer. Price 35 cents; for 40 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 6 cents.

[Illustration]

Not a squeezer at all, but better. Press half a lemon down over the
burr and turn it round with the hand.

The burr cuts the pulp, dislodges the juice and saves it all without
squeezing the bitter oil of lemon out of the rind. No seeds, no waste,
no spattering.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cold stove-door Knob. Price 6 cents; for 8 cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Wood handle; hangs on the knob, saves burning the fingers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dust-pan. Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 12
cents.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Japanned-steel; propped up behind in position to use so that one need
not stoop to hold it by hand—a touch with the foot is enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kerosene-brick for burning kerosene in any cook-stove, heater or open
fire-place, as kindler or fuel. Porous fire brick.

[Illustration]

We do not know (at the time of writing) its limit of value, having only
just now got it. It is safe—no doubt of that. It is the best kindler
ever discovered—no doubt of that. But to what extent it is going to be
used for summer fuel and fuel for transient occasions of all sorts we
do not know. It is a new thing of very great importance everywhere. We
therefore state what we know of it carefully.

The reason why it does not explode is that the oil is fast in the pores
of the brick and can’t get out, except as it is slowly driven out by
the fire. Kerosene lamps are dangerous; but you are careful with them.
There is no possible way in which the kerosene-brick can explode. The
only harm that can come of it is through keeping a larger supply of
kerosene for fuel then you would keep for light. The answer to that is
that a barrel is no worse than a pint. Either is enough to blow a house
into kindling-wood.

The reason why it is the best kindler is that it is the cheapest—in
other respects it is not much better than pitch-pine.

Tradesmen are likely to overstate the cheapness of it; but it is very
cheap—how cheap depends, of course, on the cost of your kerosene; and
that is so different in different parts of the country that we cannot
give the cost of using the kerosene-brick. It saves its cost in wood
perhaps ten times over.

It makes smoke and soot; but they go up chimney.

The first cost of the kerosene-brick is as follows:[A]

    No. 1. Price 35 cents; for 40 cents in new subscriptions.
    No. 2. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
    No. 3. Price 75 cents; for 85 cents in new subscriptions.
    No. 4. Price $1.20; for $1.35 in new subscriptions.
    No. 5. Price $1.75; for $2 in new subscriptions.
    No. 6. Price $1.50; for $1.70 in new subscriptions.

And you want a peculiar sort of tongs (see the cut) for handling the
kerosene-brick. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.

To save express charges, we ship from the manufacturer’s nearest place
of business (nearest to you) wherever that may be.

There is going to be a kerosene-brick of a shape to imitate wood for
use in open fire-places. Not yet made and may not be so handy to fill.
By the way, we haven’t told how to fill the kerosene-brick.

“No. 1” above means a tin can with three small kerosene-bricks in it.
You take out one of the bricks, fill the can with kerosene and let it
stand fifteen minutes or over night. The two bricks are ready for use
any minute and stay so indefinitely. The smallest is big enough for
kindling. Maker’s circular sent.

[Footnote A: These are the maker’s prices in Boston. Beyond New England
the local prices will vary. We hear they are double out West. We go by
Boston prices, wherever you are.]

Ignites with a match. You put it out by dipping it in water. Throwing
water on it does not put it out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Set of little flower-garden tools. Price 30 cents; for 40 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 18 cents.

[Illustration]

Good tools and large enough; hoe and rake 14-inch, blades 3½-inch; fork
and trowel 11-inch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spice-Box. Price 75 cents; for 85 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
25 cents.

[Illustration]

Japanned-tin, 7-inch and 2-inch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Vegetable-masher, sauce-strainer and handy squeezer for twenty uses.
Price 65 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 18 cents.

[Illustration: C. F. HEWIS PATENT 1881]

Large enough for two or three small potatoes. Really it is not a
potato-masher. It turns potatoes into a different sort of edible,
lighter, bulkier, mealier. Let them go into it steaming hot; let the
masher itself be hot; receive the dainty outcome in a hot dish and
immediately cover it. If this excellent tool has a fault, it is in
cooling potatoes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Le Page’s Glue. Price 20 cents; for 25 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 5 cents.

Doubtless the strongest glue as well as the most available. Liquid and
used as it is, unless chilled or thick, when warm it a little, or add
vinegar. In handy tin can with screw top.

Mends crockery; not glass because not transparent. Diluted enough makes
excellent mucilage. Let every family have it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Turn-over Broiler that keeps the gravy out of the fire and on the meat.
Price 65 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions. Postage 24 cents.

[Illustration: PAT. AUG. 12, 79.]

Of light sheet-iron very smooth, punched full of holes, and the holes
are “dished” in the punching, so that none of the gravy is lost. Makes
good steak better and pays for itself in a week.


Bartlett Domestic Press. Price $1.50; for $2 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration: BARTLETT]

For meats, jellies, wine, cider, etc. Easily washed. Pressure of a
thousand pounds is easily got by turning the crank without danger of
breaking the press.

       *       *       *       *       *

Daisy Pillow-sham Holder. Price $1; for $1.10 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration: NIGHT

DAY]

Out of sight, holds the pillow-shams in place by day, and lifts them
out of the way at night, is light, handy, goes on a bedstead of any
size, saves work and money. The best device for the purpose. By express.

       *       *       *       *       *

Crumb-tray and brush. Price 60 cents; for 75 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

Prettily painted tin tray and good brush.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Self-winding Tape-measure, with mirror on one side and perpetual
calendar on the other. Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Self-winding Tape-measure, with stop. Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in
new subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

[Illustration: HAFF M’F’G CO.

N. Y.]

Neat bright nickel case. The stop holds the tape wherever set.

       *       *       *       *       *

Crochet Needles, dozen. Price 20 cents; for 25 cents in new
subscriptions.

[Illustration: EVERY HOOK FINISHED BY HAND AND GUARANTEED PERFECT.]

Nickeled, assorted sizes, perfect and smooth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mineral Cabinet, No. 1. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 14 cents.

[Illustration: TAMMEN’S ROCKY MOUNTAIN CABINET.

A set of 20 large Minerals, Gems and Petrifactions, systematically
arranged in a polished hardwood case. Price, $1.35.

_Contains Specimen Ores of Gold Quartz_, _Silver_, _Iron_, _Pyrites_,
_Zinc_, _also Malachite_, _Jasper_, _Silicified Wood_, _Cluster of Rock
Crystals_, _Wavellite_, _Carnelian (a polished gem)_, _Molybdenum_,
_Satin and Iceland Spars_, _Pike’s Peak Topaz_, _Amazon Stone_,
_Magnetite_, _Wood-Opal_, _Chalcopyrite and Tourmoline_. _Distinctly
understand these are all_ =large specimens= (_1¼ inch square_), =and
not fragments=.

A DESCRIPTIVE MANUAL IS SENT WITH EACH CABINET GIVING THE HISTORY,
PROPERTIES & USES OF THE DIFFERENT MINERALS & GEMS.

Copyright, 1886, by H. H. TAMMEN, Denver, Colorado.]

Another, No. 2, the same except different minerals; terms the same.
No. 2 contains: opal agate, aragonite, milky quartz, cuprite,
jasper, galena, sulphur, crocidolite (polished), selenite, hematite,
feldspar, fluorspar, variscite, argentite, chalcedony, petrified
cedar, alabaster, lead carbonate, telluride ore, muscovite. With brief
explanation of every specimen. Neat box with clasp.

These cabinets give invariable satisfaction in schools and families.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anything that children wear from baby up, at the rate of $1 in clothing
for $1.60 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

The clothing comes from Best & Company, 60 West 23d street, New York.
You send for their catalogue, pick out what you want, and send your
order to us with money and names of course.

[Illustration]

The reason we send from Best & Company is that they keep the largest
variety and serve an absent buyer as well as if he were there in the
store.

[Illustration]

Most of the big city dry-goods houses keep more or less of children’s
clothing; but they generally slight it. The work is apt to be shabby,
the materials flimsy, the styles too pronounced if not “carried over
from last year.” Girls’ things are considered especially hard to get
satisfactorily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tammen’s Cabinet, forty smaller specimens. Price 60 cents; for 75 cents
in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Paper box with sheet of explanations where the minerals came from, what
they are used for, etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

Diamond Dyes. Price 10 cents a color; for 15 cents in new subscriptions.

Dyeing at home in the most satisfactory manner is very easy and
profitable. Silk and woolen stuffs come out of the dye about as nice as
when they were new. For cotton some of the colors have to be specially
made. Wood stains are made from the dyes.

Diamond dyes are complete in themselves; that is, nothing more is
required to set the colors. It is really no more difficult to dye with
most of the colors than to rinse or starch. And full instructions
accompany the dyes.

The colors are: yellow, old-gold, orange; green, olive-green,
dark-green; pink, magenta, scarlet, crimson, cardinal, garnet,
terra-cotta, maroon, dark-wine; violet, plum, purple; light-blue,
navy-blue, dark-blue; slate, drab, black; and yellow for cotton, green
for cotton, cardinal for cotton, scarlet for cotton, and blue for
cotton.

Diamond dyes do not stain the hands or utensils if used with a little
care. You handle the stuffs with sticks till you come to the wringing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Book-rack, No. 318. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Maple; 18x24 inches; neatly put together without nails or screws; packs
flat.

       *       *       *       *       *

Book-rack, No. 424. Price $1; for $1.10 in new subscriptions.

Same, 23x32 inches, four shelves.

       *       *       *       *       *

Book-rack, No. 424½. Price $1.50; for $1.65 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Same size as last, more work on it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Knitting Outfit. Price $1; for $1.10 in new subscriptions. Postage 8
cents.

[Illustration: HOW TO USE

FLORENCE KNITTING SILK No 5

NONOTUCK SILK CO.]

Consists of 2 balls of Florence silk, whatever colors you like, 5
needles, and book of information. Extra silk at 40 cents a ball; for 50
cents in new subscriptions.


SCHOOL AND ART FACILITIES

Eagle Fine Arts pencils, polished cedar box of 7 grades. Price $1; for
$1.25 in new subscriptions. Postage 5 cents.

[Illustration:

    EAGLE FINE ARTS H 360
    EAGLE FINE ARTS HHH 362
    EAGLE FINE ARTS HHHHHH 365
    EAGLE FINE ARTS H.B. 357
    EAGLE FINE ARTS B. 356
    EAGLE FINE ARTS BBB 364
    EAGLE FINE ARTS F 359
]

As fine as any, free from grit, of uniform grades, clean lead, erasable
leaving no smirch; for the most exacting requirements. BBB to HHHHHH.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration:

    EAGLE ACADEMIC Extra Hard
    EAGLE ACADEMIC Hard
    EAGLE ACADEMIC Medium
    EAGLE ACADEMIC Soft Medium
    EAGLE ACADEMIC Soft
    EAGLE ACADEMIC Extra Soft
]

Eagle Fine Drawing pencils, polished cedar box of 6 grades from
extra-soft to extra-hard. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 4 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: HIGHEST AWARD PHILADELPHIA 1876

    733   EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
    718   EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
    725   EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
    706   EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
    712   EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876

HIGHEST AWARD PHILADELPHIA 1876

EAGLE COLORED CRAYONS]

Eagle Best Colored Crayons:

Box of 24 colors. Price $1.75; for $2 in new subscriptions. Postage 10
cents.

Box of 18 colors. Price $1.35; for $1.50 in new subscriptions. Postage
8 cents.

Box of 12 colors. Price 90 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions. Postage
6 cents.

Equivalent to water-colors. The full assortment is 50 colors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eagle Scholastic Colored Crayons. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 6 cents.

[Illustration:

    SCHOLASTIC No. 1
    COLORED CRAYONS FOR PAINTING & COLORING

    753 EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
    743 EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
    718 EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
    706 EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
    702 EAGLE PHILA LONDON 1876
]

Paper box of 5 colors, same crayons as last, with 6 colored sketches
and 12 outline designs adapted to children’s use.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: INK ERASER

EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY.

PENCIL ERASER]

Eagle Eraser. Price 10 cents; for 15 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Automatic Drop pencil. Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in new
subscriptions.

[Illustration: OPEN.]

[Illustration: CLOSED.]

Acts precisely like the magic knife. See page 13 of this list.

Extra leads; price 8 cents a box; for 10 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eagle Solid-ink Fountain and Pen. Price 10 cents; for 15 cents in new
subscriptions.

[Illustration]

The solid-ink fountain is simply a stick of solid ink, which is held in
a clamp inside an ordinary penholder, used with any pen. You dip the
pen in water, and the water dissolves the ink.

Extra ink. Price 10 cents a box of 6 sticks; for 15 cents in new
subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eagle Ready Companion. Price 10 cents; for 15 cents in new
subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Wood pen and pencil-carrier; opens and shuts like the magic knife on
page 13 and the automatic pencil.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prang’s Non-Poisonous Water-Colors for Children:

Box No. 2, 8 colors and brush. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new
subscriptions.

Box No. 4, 12 colors and 2 brushes. Price 40 cents; for 50 cents in new
subscriptions.

Perfectly harmless. The colors conform very closely to accepted
standards, and flow from the cakes with a touch of water. The brushes
are good camel’s-hair. The boxes are very pretty and useful.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prang’s Fine Water-Colors for Schools and Amateurs, box No. 13, 12
colors and 2 brushes. Price 75 cents; for 85 cents in new subscriptions.

Not non-poisonous, but not more poisonous than the Murillo colors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Introductory Lessons in Drawing and painting in Water-Colors, by Marion
Kemble. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.

For those who know nothing at all of either.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jack-plane pencil-sharpener. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new
subscriptions.

[Illustration]

The best pencil-sharpener we know of at any price, because it is handy,
does its work perfectly, never breaks the lead; and the plane-knife can
be adjusted and sharpened exactly as in a carpenter’s plane.

       *       *       *       *       *

Polygraph, brass. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 3 cents.

[Illustration]

The same, bright nickel. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

Pattern for almost every sort of figure and combination; wonderfully
useful for children, designers, and artisans.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prang’s Water-color Studies are the best examples of what is known as
the new style of water-color painting, in which transparent colors only
are mixed in the brush and laid on broadly.

They are reproductions of works by American artists designed primarily
for instruction in art, but none the less available for home-decoration
on that account. Indeed they rank the higher in interest, being all
they seem to common eyes, and faithful illustrations besides of
recent advances in one of the least familiar departments of Art.
They are not unfinished sketches, but exquisite finished color-work.
The use we expect to introduce them to by this List is chiefly the
non-professional, home-decoration. Let it be understood, there is
nothing more fit for that use, and nothing higher, within the reach of
people of limited means.

They comprise landscapes, marine views, flowers, animals, birds and
figure pieces from such artists as Turner, Moran, Bridges, Lambdin,
Giacomelli, etc.

We send Prang’s catalogue and supply whatever may be selected from it
at the rate of $1.10 in new subscriptions for $1 of catalogue prices.

Postage on sizes under 12x12 inches 6 cents; over 12x12 inches 10 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the Use of Water Colors for Beginners. By Ross Turner. Price $3; for
$3.25 in new subscriptions.

“Hints to assist a beginner in a right direction, assisting him to
start right, and upon such a beginning to work out by personal study
and experience his own way of using materials,” by an eminent artist
and no less eminent teacher.

Large quarto, illustrated by engravings and six fine colored plates.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prang’s Reproductions of Oil Paintings supplied at the rate of $1.10 in
new subscriptions for $1 of catalogue prices.

We supply whatever may be selected from Prang’s catalogue; but, as
that affords no clue to the works beyond titles, sizes and artists’
names, we have chosen a few of the most available pieces and printed
descriptions of them. From this short list you can pick out what is
likely to answer your purpose.

They are landscapes, marine views, figure pieces, animal and
dining-room pictures.

Postage on sizes under 12x12 inches 6 cents; over 12x12 inches 10 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Winsor & Newton’s Oil Colors. Price for seventy-five of the list 8
cents a tube; for 12½ cents in new subscriptions.

Other colors supplied at higher rates. Postage 2 cents a tube.

A list of colors sent on request. These are most used: burnt sienna,
raw sienna, emerald green, flake white, light red, naples yellow,
permanent blue, raw umber, terra verte, prussian blue, vandyke brown,
yellow ochre, ivory black, zinnober green (medium); all of which are
supplied at the quoted rate.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Ruler with circle-guide. Price 25 cents; for 30 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 12 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scholar’s Companion, No. 41. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration: NO. 41]

Cloth-covered box with pen-holder, pencil, slate-pencil, sponge and
sponge-box, rubber eraser, ink-bottle, knife and key—box locks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Vassar School-bag. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 8 cents.

Stout bag of open lace of white cotton twine with red lining showing
through, with gay stripes of colored twine in the lace.

       *       *       *       *       *

“Beginner’s Outfit” of tissue paper and other materials for
flower-work. Price 35 cents; for 50 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
7 cents.

[Illustration]

Colors of tissue paper, rose sprays, stems, daisy centers and petals,
leaves, wire, instructions.

       *       *       *       *       *

“Complete Assortment” of tissue paper and other materials. Price $1;
for $1.30 in new subscriptions. Postage 16 cents.

Paper colors, tubing, culots, rose sprays and moss, wire, rose, poppy
and daisy centers, poppy buds, leaves, pincers, instructions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Letter-scale. Price 50 cents; for 60 cents in new subscriptions.

[Illustration: 0 1 2 3 4 6 8 10 12]

Weighs from ½-ounce to 10 or 12 ounces. With hook for tied parcels and
clamp for letters.


MUSIC Etc.

Mason & Hamlin Organ No. 2208, five octaves, nine stops. For $100 in
new subscriptions.

[Illustration: Mason & Hamlin]

The cash price of this organ in music stores depends on where the store
is, its costs, and its scale of profits. The lowest price we know of is
$99; the highest $165. Size 4-11x1-11x5. Weight in case 322 lbs.

One of the most perplexing bargains a family has to make nowadays is in
buying a musical instrument. Price and quality, both, are in doubt.

There is probably some good reason for what appears to be chronic
demoralization pervading the musical instrument business in every part
of this enormous country of ours. We can’t control the fact. We have
got round it, if you happen to want an organ.

We’ll try, if you want a piano.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Pitch-pipe, A and C, in a handy pocket-case. Price 20 cents; for 25
cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bay State Guitar, Style E. Price $14; for $18 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Guaranteed by the makers (John C. Haynes & Co., Boston) not to warp or
split. Solid-rosewood sides and back, mahogany neck.

Wood case for $4 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Banjo, No. 33½. Price $5; for $6.25 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Nickeled rim, wood lining, imitation-walnut fretted arm, ball brackets,
calfskin head.

       *       *       *       *       *

Music-box, No. 3½. Price $7; for $8 in new subscriptions.

Rosewood; 3 airs; 2¾-inch cylinder; key attached.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Xylophone. No. 1, 2 octaves. Price $1.50; for $2 in new subscriptions.
No. 3, 2½ octaves (with chromatics). Price $5.50; for $7.50 in new
subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Accordion. Price $5; for $6 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

10 keys, 2 sets reeds, stop, double bellows, german-silver clasps and
corners.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thie Three-sided Harmonica. Price 90 cents; for $1.25 in new
subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

16 double holes on a side; german-silver plates.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell Harmonica. Price 60 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 5 cents.

[Illustration]

10 double holes; brass plates.

       *       *       *       *       *

Concert Harmonica. Price 60 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 8 cents.

[Illustration: Concert]

Size 5½x2¼ inches; 24 double holes; brass plates.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Richter Harmonica, No. 33½. Price 25 cents; for 35 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents. 4-inch, 10 single holes, nickeled
plates.

       *       *       *       *       *

Franklin Square Song Collection, Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4. Price 50 cents
each; for 75 cents in new subscriptions.

Each number contains the words and music of about two-hundred of what
are regarded as the best songs of the time: songs of home, worship,
love, country, children, school; with a mass of information relating to
them. Table of Contents sent on request.


WATCHES CLOCKS JEWELRY

Seth Thomas Watch in argentine case for $10 in new subscriptions; in
silver case for $15 in new subscriptions. Postage 10 cents.

There is strong competition between the American watch-manufactories on
low-price watches. The struggle is to make the best for the money. That
is the way to capture the market. Seth Thomas watch is ahead.

We buy the movement separate. There is no established price for the
watch as we send it out. We are giving the most we can get for the
money. The watch is a good time-keeper; durable; open-face; has seven
jewels; is decidedly worth repairing; good enough; a great deal better
than any foreign watch for the money; better than any other American
watch for the money.

The argentine case is a substitute for silver, substantial, keeps
its silver look. The silver case is no better, unless you object
to an imitation. The argentine case is plain, the silver is chased
(“turned” is the technical word), the neatest of watch-case engraving.
Stem-winders and setters of course.

       *       *       *       *       *

Waterbury Watch, chain, whistle and agate charm. Price for the whole,
$3; for $4 in new subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

Perhaps a million of these watches are in use. As good a time-keeper
as any common watch and bears a good deal of banging. The only fault
we ever heard of in it is the slowness of winding—takes about a minute
and a half—stem-winder at that. The makers undertake to repair it for
50 cents and postage. The case is bright nickel, or what is called
nickel—looks like silver.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chatelaine Watch. Price $7; for $9 in new subscriptions. Postage 10
cents.

[Illustration]

Fair time-keeper, plain, bright nickel case.

       *       *       *       *       *

Alarm Clock. Price $1.75; for $2 in new subscriptions. Postage 20 cents.

[Illustration]

Nickel, one-day, 4-inch dial, key attached.

       *       *       *       *       *

Little Nickel One-day Clock with 2-inch dial. Price $1.35; for $1.75 in
new subscriptions. Postage 10 cents.

[Illustration]

Winds by turning the whole back plate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eight-day Clock with cathedral bell. Price $10; for $11 in new
subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Enameled-iron case with gilt decorations, a close imitation of black
marble; 10x15 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Send for finger-measure a slip of paper that just goes round the ring
finger.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plated Finger-rings. Patterns 1, 2, 3, 4 in heavy rolled plate. Price
$1 each; for $1.25 in new subscriptions. Same in filled fourteen-karat
gold. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gold Finger-ring of patterns 1 or 3. Price $1.75; for $2.50 in new
subscriptions. No. 2, $2.25; for $3.00 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gold Cameo Finger-ring. Price $1.50; for $2 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plated Gold-stone Finger-ring. Price $1; for $1.35 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gold Amethyst Finger-ring. Price $1.75; for $2.50 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plated Tiger-eye Finger-ring. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new
subscriptions.


SILVER-PLATED WARE Etc.

Flat ware may be of any of these six patterns, except table-knives and
fruit-knives. Pattern B with handles oxidized for about ten per cent
additional to the prices quoted. [B not oxidized same price as the
others.]

[Illustration]

The grade of all, both flat and hollow ware, is that known in the trade
as “triple-plate,” unless otherwise noted.

The maker of nearly all is the Holmes & Edwards Silver Company.

Plush boxes supplied, if wanted. They cost about as much as the wares
they contain.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tea-spoons of any pattern. Price $2.50 a half-dozen; for $3 in new
subscriptions. Postage 7 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dessert-spoons of any pattern. Price $4.25; for $5 in new
subscriptions. Postage 12 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Table-spoons or forks of medium size of any pattern. Price $4.75 a
half-dozen; for $6 in new subscriptions. Postage 14 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Table-knives of medium size. Price $2.50 a half dozen; for $3 in new
subscriptions. Postage 24 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: HOLMES & EDWARDS 12]

Fruit-knives. Price $1.75 a half-dozen; for $2.10 in new subscriptions.
Postage 10 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pocket Fruit-knife. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 3 cents.

[Illustration]

Not “triple-plate”; two grades lower.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Butter-knife of pattern A, C, D, or E. Price $1; for $1.25 in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Sugar-tongs of pattern A, C, D, or E. Price $1.50; for $2 in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Sugar-shell of pattern A, C, D, or E. Price 75 cents; for $1 in new
subscriptions. Postage 3 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Berry-spoon A, C, D or E. Price $2.50; for $3 in new subscriptions.
Postage 5 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Gravy-ladle A, C, D or E. Price $1.50; for $2 in new subscriptions.
Postage 4 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Soup-ladle A, C, D or E. Price $4; for $5 in new subscriptions. Postage
12 cents.

Same as gravy-ladle, but larger.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Fish-knife and Fork A, C, D, or E. Price $3.25 each; for $4 each in new
subscriptions. Postage 4 cents each.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pie-knife A, C, D or E. Price $3.25; for $4 in new subscriptions.
Postage 5 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Cake-knife A, C, D or E. Price $3.25; for $4 in new subscriptions.
Postage 3 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Child’s set of knife, fork, spoon and napkin-ring. Price $1.50; for
$1.75 in new subscriptions. Postage 10 cents.

[Illustration]

Not triple-plate; two grades lower.

       *       *       *       *       *

Butter-dish. Price $3; for $4.50 in new subscriptions. Must go by
express.

[Illustration]

Satin finish.

       *       *       *       *       *

Call-bell. Price $1.50; for $2 in new subscriptions. Postage 10 cents.

Top strike; neat design. Not triple-plate; two grades lower.

       *       *       *       *       *

Napkin-ring No. 173. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 5 cents.

Not triple-plate; two grades lower.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pickle-jar with tongs. Price $2; for $2.50 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

Engraved glass jar.

       *       *       *       *       *

Child’s Cup No. 38. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 10 cents.

[Illustration]

Not triple-plate; two grades lower; gold-lined.

       *       *       *       *       *

Child’s Cup No 28. Price $2.50; for $2.75 in new subscriptions. Postage
10 cents.

[Illustration]

Not triple-plate; two grades lower; gold-lined.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nut-picks. Price 90 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions. Postage 5 cents.

[Illustration]

No. A1½, 5-inch, six nickeled-steel picks in paper box.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nut-cracker and picks. Price $1.75; for $2 in new subscriptions.
Postage 10 cents.

No. C1½, 5-inch, six nickeled-steel picks and one cracker in paper box.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plymouth Lap-board. Price $1.25; for $1.35 in new subscriptions.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Very light but strong, unsplittable, cloth-like surface pleasant to
touch, not slippery, brass-bound, neat, with half-yard measure and
checker-board. There never will be a better thing for its many, many
uses. Must go by express.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rand-McNally Standard Atlas of the World. The publishers’ price is
$4.50. We send it postage paid for $2.50 in new subscriptions.

Edition of 1887, “revised to date including maps.” (We quote from the
publishers’ letter. The Atlas is not yet out at the time of writing.)

Large book, 11x14 inches, cloth binding, about 200 pages; about 150
maps, about 30 statistical diagrams, etc., nearly 100 engravings; brief
descriptions of regions, countries, cities, governments; our part of
the world elaborately mapped and illustrated.

So comprehensive an Atlas can only be made for the money by many
thousands, and so only in a country where millions of people are happy
enough to want to know the world they live in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Webster’s Unabridged Dictionary. Price $13; for $17 in new
subscriptions. By express at receiver’s cost.

[Illustration: WEBSTER’S UNABRIDGED DICTIONARY]

Latest edition, with marginal index. See cut.

       *       *       *       *       *

Worcester’s Unabridged Dictionary. Price $11; for $13 in new
subscriptions. By express at receiver’s cost.

Latest edition with marginal index. See cut of Webster.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ladies’ Card-case. Price 85 cents; for $1.10 in new subscriptions.

Natural calfskin stamped with a beautiful pattern, old-gold satin
lining.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pearl Rug-maker. Price $1; for $1.10 in new subscriptions. Postage 6
cents.

[Illustration: The PEARL RUG MAKER.

PATENTED]

A sort of sewing-machine attachment; not strictly that; for it is not
attached; may be used with any machine, or without a machine, the
sewing done by hand.

With it a woman of taste and aptness with colors can get out of her
rag-bag beautiful rugs with almost no expense beyond sewing-cotton and
dyes [see Diamond Dyes, page 23 of this list.]

[Illustration]

The rug-maker is simply a nickeled steel-wire frame on which to
wind cut rags or yarns preparatory to sewing them on a substantial
foundation. Not hard to learn the use of. Not hard to use. A sort of
homely art-work with waste materials, splendidly profitable.

The finished rug is a velvet, the pile of which is made by cutting the
loops as they come from the rug-maker. The product of one day’s work
may be as pretty and rich a rug as you would buy for several dollars.
All depends on your taste, materials, colors, industry, patience. There
is something of the constructive artist in every woman of taste.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Mirror for toilet stand. Price 60 cents; for 75 cents in new
subscriptions. Postage 8 cents.

[Illustration]

Beveled plate glass, 4x6 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Toilet-case. Price $2.75; for $3.50 in new subscriptions. Postage
35 cents.

[Illustration]

Zylonite mirror, brush and comb. Looks like ivory.

       *       *       *       *       *

Zylonite Brush and Mirror. Price 75 cents each; for $1.10 in new
subscriptions. Postage 6 cents each.

Together or either. Lily of the Valley pattern.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Plush Collar and Cuff Box. Price $2.50; for $3 in new subscriptions.
Postage 20 cents.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Jewel-case No. 150. Price $1; for $1.25 in new subscriptions.
Postage 10 cents.

[Illustration]

Size 4½x6x3 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Sealing-wax Cabinet. Price $2.25; for $2.85 in new subscriptions.
Postage 10 cents.

Your initial-seal, five colors of finest wax, two wax candles, and
stick in paper box.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sealing-wax Box. Price 75 cents; for 80 cents in new subscriptions.
Postage 6 cents.

[Illustration: FINEST PERFUMED WAX

ESCRITOIRE]

Same contents as last. Paper box with cover.

       *       *       *       *       *

Writing-desk. Price $1.50; for $2.10 in new subscriptions. Postage 45
cents.

[Illustration]

Walnut inlaid with mahogany. Locks.

       *       *       *       *       *

Writing-case for the lap. Price $2.50; for $3.50 in new subscriptions.
Postage 30 cents.

[Illustration]

Leather cover, with pockets and box full of writing-materials.

       *       *       *       *       *

Music-roll. Price $1.35; for $1.75 in new subscriptions. Postage 7
cents.

[Illustration]

Substantial leather, imitation seal, bound with morocco, morocco strap,
round leather handle, nickel trimmings.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Silver Thimble. Price 65 cents; for 85 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration]

Gold-filled thimble. Price $1.25; for $1.60 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scrap-book. Price 60 cents; for 75 cents in new subscriptions. Postage
30 cents.

[Illustration: ALBUM]

Size 9½x12 inches. 56 pages.

       *       *       *       *       *

Handy Travelling-bag No. 161. Price $3.25; for $5 in new subscriptions.
Postage 45 cents.

[Illustration]

Natural grain leather, lined with leather, large inside pocket, nickel
lock and trimmings; size 12-inch.

       *       *       *       *       *

Same, 14-inch. Price $4; for $6 in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ladies’ Pocket-book. Price $1.50; for $2 in new subscriptions. Postage
5 cents.

Seal, morocco flap-lining, skiver pockets.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Work-box. Price $2.25; for $3 in new subscriptions. Postage 20
cents.

[Illustration]

Beveled plate-glass mirror in cover, bone needle-case, crochet needle,
bodkin, thread-knife, button-hook, tape-needle and a pair of scissors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Work-box for a little girl. Price $1.50; for $2 in new
subscriptions. Postage 18 cents.

[Illustration]

Same things as in last except mirror.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Perfume-stand No. 4005. Price $1.25; for $1.75 in new
subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

Two ground-stopper bottles, six multiplying mirrors, nickel extension
handle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Perfume-stand No. 3. Price 75 cents; for $1 in new subscriptions.
Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

Two ground-stopper bottles, two mirrors, brass handle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Plush Mirror and Whisk-holder. Price $1.25; for $1.50 in new
subscriptions. Postage 15 cents.

[Illustration]

Beveled medallion mirror, three little hooks, whisk with nickel-damask
handle and ring. A pretty piece for a girl’s room.

       *       *       *       *       *

BARNEY & BERRY’S SKATES

State exact length of boot.

       *       *       *       *       *

Keyless Skate. Price $4; for $4.50 in new subscriptions. Postage 35
cents.

[Illustration: BARNEY & BERRY]

Best steel, best make, best temper; bright nickel. Toe and heel clamps
worked together by thumb-screw at heel: the simplest fastening. Sizes 8
to 12 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Skate No. R. Price $2; for $2.10 in new subscriptions. Postage 35 cents.

Fac-simile of the Keyless skate, of lower grade; nickeled.

       *       *       *       *       *

American Rink Skate. Price $4.50; for $5.00 in new subscriptions.
Postage 35 cents.

[Illustration: BARNEY & BERRY]

Best every way; adjustable as to size by a thumb-screw at the heel and
fastened by a lever under the instep. Sizes 8 to 12 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Skate No. T. Price $2; for $2.10 in new subscriptions. Postage 35 cents.

Skate No. T is a fac-simile of the American Rink Skate; heel-plates,
foot-plates, toe-clamps and brackets of crucible steel; nickeled.

       *       *       *       *       *

All-clamp Skate. Price $4; for $4.50 in new subscriptions. Postage 35
cents.

Best nickeled steel. Sizes 7 to 12 inches.

       *       *       *       *       *

Skate No. F. Price $2; for $2.10 in new subscriptions. Postage 35 cents.

Fac-simile of All-clamp skate, of lower grade; nickeled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ladies’ Keyless Skate. No. LR. Price $2.50; for $3 in new
subscriptions. Postage 30 cents.

Blades of the lower grade, foot-plates, clamps and brackets of crucible
steel; russet-leather trimmings; nickel heel-bands. A thumb-screw at
the heel works the toe-clamps.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ladies’ Clamp Skate, No. LE. Price $2.50; for $3 in new subscriptions.
Postage 30 cents.

Differs from No. LR only in having the toe-clamps worked by a key
instead of a thumb-screw.

       *       *       *       *       *

Putz Pomade, the best polishing substance known for gold, silver,
copper, brass, tin and other metals. Price 15 cents a box; for 20 cents
in new subscriptions.

One of the many new things in this List, the knowledge of which is
worth much more than it costs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Putz Pulver, perhaps the same as the paste; but, being a powder, it
does not cling to chasings; better therefore for jewelry. Price 15
cents a box; for 20 cents in new subscriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Any subscriber may pay his own subscription by getting new
subscriptions of twice the amount._

Thus: _Babyland for $1 in new subscriptions_; _Our Little Men and Women
for $2 in new subscriptions_; _Pansy for $2 in new subscriptions_;
_Chautauqua Young Folks’ Journal for $2 in new subscriptions_; _Wide
Awake for $4.80 in new subscriptions_.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Any book we publish, postage paid, at the rate of $1 for $1.20 in new
subscriptions._

Thus: _A 50-cent book for 60 cents in new subscriptions, a $1 book for
$1.20, a $1.50 book for $1.80, a $2 book for $2.40, etc._

We cannot describe our two-thousand books in this List; and, if we
begin, there is no stopping-place. The best we can do is to send our
catalogue [We wish it afforded more of a clue to their contents]; and
you select from that.




CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG FOLKS’ READING UNION.


1. There are few forces more powerful in the shaping of character than
those which spring from reading. _Robinson Crusoe_ has sent thousands
of boys to sea, and other books less wholesome have sent thousands
to prison; many a youth has been inspired to noble aims and a useful
life by the help of a good book. A distinguished scientist says that a
single book which fell into his hands during boyhood gave him “a twist
toward science.”

2. It is not a question whether our young people will read or not, for
nearly all of them do read. The question is whether they shall read a
helpful or a harmful literature, for every book and paper belongs to
either one class or the other. There is but one way to keep out the
harmful, and that is to supply the helpful. At a public conference on
the subject of literature for young people one speaker said, “I find
that when I keep the table in my own house well covered with good
papers for young people my children have no desire for a low class of
story-papers.” A shelf of good, interesting books for young people will
save them from depraved taste in reading.

3. One difficulty in the way of supplying the home with good literature
is that parents are too busy. To provide a pure and healthful course
of reading, and with it the impulse to follow it, the CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG
FOLKS’ READING UNION has been established. This is an outgrowth of the
Chautauqua movement, which aims to promote popular education for every
grade and every age, and is the peculiar adaptation of the Chautauqua
Course to young people. It takes in the main the same subjects as those
of the Chautauqua Literary and Scientific Circle, and fits them to the
needs of the young, so that while the older people are pursuing one
course of reading, the boys and girls, from twelve years, and upward,
may read in the same lines and on the same themes. The course includes
history, science, literature, travel, household matters, “ways to do
things,” etc., mainly in short articles, which can be easily read. It
can be accomplished in less than two hours of each week, for as many
years as the student chooses to follow it, for each year’s reading is
complete in itself.

4. The Readings of the CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG FOLKS’ READING UNION are of
two kinds, Serial and in Books. The Serial Readings are contained in
a monthly supplement to WIDE AWAKE, a magazine for young people which
stands at the head of its class in literature. This supplement is also
published as a separate periodical, called the CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG FOLKS’
JOURNAL. The Book Readings consist generally of three standard books
adapted for young people. With the course are furnished to enrolled
members the “Outline Memoranda,” or questions for examination, not a
severe test of knowledge of the Readings, but suggestive, and calling
forth the thoughts and opinions of the reader.

5. The Course may be taken by individuals, each reading by himself, or
by a number reading together and meeting in a Local Club or Circle.
Such a Club may be organized by the teacher of a school among the
scholars, and will furnish pleasant and elevating enjoyment, as well as
training in composition, debating, observation, etc., by its exercises.
The members may read papers of their own writing upon the subjects of
the course, may present questions, may look at pictures of objects and
places referred to, and may witness simple experiments in science,
and may also have social recreation at its meetings. [For plans of
organization and management of a Local Club, send for the handbook.]

6. All that is requisite for membership is to send name and address,
with ten cents in postage stamps, to the Secretary, Miss Kate F.
Kimball, Plainfield, N. J. WIDE AWAKE contains much besides the
readings—serial stories, short stories, illustrated articles, and
poems—while the CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG FOLKS’ JOURNAL contains but little
besides the readings. Besides one of the magazines, the three books
cost $1.70. [For the Course of the coming year see next page.]

7. Every enrolled member receives free of cost a Certificate of
Membership. It is an albertype, with a symbolic picture embodying the
light-bearing spirit of the Union, and is suited to framing for the
home. For each year’s reading a seal is given, which is to be affixed
to the certificate. Thus the engraving will show by its seals the years
of the member’s reading.


ANNOUNCEMENT.

_The next Course of Readings will begin in the December number of_ WIDE
AWAKE _and the_ JOURNAL _and run through 1888. Something of the value
and interest may be gathered from the following prospectus._

       *       *       *       *       *


SEVENTH ANNUAL COURSE.

REQUIRED READINGS (SERIAL).

I. DEAR OLD STORY-TELLERS. By _Oscar Fay Adams_. A set of most
delightful papers about certain old authors and certain old stories
whose names and titles are constantly occurring in general literature.
Whatever of importance and interest is known about these authors Mr.
Adams has here gathered up; and a good idea is given of the work which
has made them famous, valued and remembered. These “Readings” will be
very helpful for all who wish to understand the allusions in literature
to standard old stories and romances. Many portraits and illustrations.

II. U. S. MILITARY AND NAVAL SCHOOLS. By _Louis T. Peale_. A good
series for family reading, as both boys and girls are growing more and
more interested in the way our Government conducts affairs, and these
papers explain just what means are taken to train up a noble body of
men to protect our country and maintain her interests and her rights by
land and sea. While the series is of general interest to everybody, it
will be especially hailed by boys who have dreams of entering the army
or the navy; they will find here a complete manual of answers to all
the questions they or their anxious friends can possibly ask as to what
the boys must do for the Government, and what the Government does for
the boys. Illustrations.

III. OUR ASIATIC COUSINS. By _Mrs. A. H. Leonowens_. Mrs. Leonowens
lived a long time in the far East, an inmate of both palace and tent,
and had opportunities of knowing face to face both royal potentates and
the common people. She has written these articles especially for the
members of the C. Y. F. R. U., and they are very interesting. Fully
illustrated.

IV. “DIAMOND DUST.” By _Mrs. S. D. Power_. Some chatty articles about
precious stones, our native gems, and beautiful objects in the mineral
world.

V. WAYS TO DO THINGS. All sorts. The first will be the “Way” to take
care of dogs, by _Louise Imogen Guiney_.

VI. SEARCH-QUESTIONS IN ROMAN HISTORY. By _Oscar Fay Adams_. Twenty
questions each month. Book prizes for correct lists of answers.
Particulars in both WIDE AWAKE and the JOURNAL.

REQUIRED READINGS (BOOKS).

A FAMILY FLIGHT AROUND HOME. Part I. By Edward Everett Hale and Susan
Hale. A new volume of this delightful series, describing the scenes and
events of early New England history, etc. Illustrations.

POETS’ HOMES. By Arthur Gilman, and others. Charming pen and pencil
pictures of the homes and haunts of the poets—and the poets themselves.

NELLY MARLOW IN WASHINGTON. By Laura D. Nichols. Those who went with
Nelly Marlow “Up Hill and Down Dale” will surely wish to go with her to
Washington. Illustrations.


PRICE LISTS.

  I. {WIDE AWAKE (Special price to members of C. Y. F. R. U.)      $2.25
     {A FAMILY FLIGHT AROUND HOME. Part I.                           .75
     {POETS’ HOMES.                                                  .35
     {NELLY MARLOW IN WASHINGTON.                                    .60
                                                                     ———
  Postage on books if sent by mail, 25 cents.                      $3.95

  II. {CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG FOLKS’ JOURNAL.                            $1.00
      {A FAMILY FLIGHT AROUND HOME. Part I.                          .75
      {POETS’ HOMES.                                                 .35
      {NELLY MARLOW IN WASHINGTON.                                   .60
                                                                     ———
  Postage on books if sent by mail, 25 cents.                      $2.70


Chautauqua Young Folks’ Annual.

New members of the C. Y. F. R. U., and others, desiring in compact form
the previous courses of Required Readings, may be glad to know that
they are issued each year in one handsomely bound volume with the above
title.

Sent postpaid by the publishers, D. LOTHROP COMPANY, and by all
booksellers, on receipt of $1.50 per volume.[A]

    I. Required Readings for ’81-2:

  Magna Charta Stories. (_Illustrated_)             _Edited by Arthur
                                                          Gilman, M. A._
  Ways to Do Things. (_Illustrated_)            _Rev. Charles R. Talbot
                                                            and others._
  Old Ocean. (_Illustrated_)                         _Ernest Ingersoll._
  The Travelling Law School.                  _Benjamin Vaughan Abbott._
  Little Biographies.—Music. (_Illustrated_)     _Hezekiah Butterworth._
  Health and Strength Papers.                    _By prominent Physical
                                                        Culture People._
  Dooryard Folks. (_Illustrated_)                    _Amanda B. Harris._
  What to Do About It.                             _The Wise Blackbird._

    Also the following books: “Stories from English
    History,” 2 volumes in the Lyceum Library; “Behaving,
    Papers on Children’s Etiquette;” and “The Story of
    English Literature.”


    II. Required Readings for ’82-3:

  Ballads of American History. (_Illustrated_)    _Margaret J. Preston._
  Remarkable Trials.                          _Benjamin Vaughan Abbott._
  Through a Microscope. (_Illustrated_)               _Samuel Wells and
                                                            Mary Treat._
  Little Biographies.—Literature. (_Illustrated_)    _Amanda B. Harris._
  Anna Maria’s Housekeeping.                        _The Next Neighbor._
  A Boy’s Workshop. (_Illustrated_)                   _A Boy Carpenter._
  Health and Strength Papers for Boys. (_Illustrated_)     _Prof. D. A.
                                                               Sargent._
  What to Do about It.                             _The Wise Blackbird._

    Also the following books: “Eyes Right,” by Adam Stwin;
    “Getting Along,” by Samuel Smiles, a book of practical
    common sense; “Stories of the Sea;” and “A Book of
    Golden Deeds,” of all times, by Charlotte M. Yonge.


    IV. Required Readings for ’84-5:

  Children of Westminster Abbey. (_Illustrated_)     _Rose G. Kingsley._
  Souvenirs of My Time. (_Illustrated_)    _Mrs. Jessie Benton Frémont._
  The Temperance Teachings of Science.             _Prof. A. B. Palmer._
  Boy’s Heroes. (_Illustrated_)                   _Edward Everett Hale._
  Ways to Do Things. (_Illustrated_)                  _Various Authors._
  Entertainments in Chemistry. (_Illustrated_)         _Harry W. Tyler._
  The Making of Pictures.                            _Sarah W. Whitman._
  Search-Questions in American Literature.            _Oscar Fay Adams._

    Also the following books: “Greece,” by Charlotte M.
    Yonge; “Field, Wood, and Meadow Rambles,” by Amanda B.
    Harris; “Wild Animals,” with full-page illustrations by
    Joseph Wolf.


    V. Required Readings for ’85-6:

  Pleasant Authors for Young Folks—-American.        _Amanda B. Harris._
      (_Portraits._)
  My Garden Pets. (_Illustrated_)                          _Mary Treat._
  Souvenirs of My Time.—Foreign.           _Mrs. Jessie Benton Frémont._
  Some Italian Authors, and Their Works.            _George E. Vincent._
  Ways to Do Things. (_Illustrated_)                  _Various Authors._
  Strange Teas, Dinners, Weddings, and Fêtes.         _Various Authors._
  Search-Questions in English Literature.             _Oscar Fay Adams._

    Also the following books: “A Family Flight Through
    France, Germany, Norway, and Switzerland,” by E.
    E. Hale and Susan Hale; “The Merchant of Venice,”
    Hudson-Lamb edition; “Underfoot,” by Laura D. Nichols.


    VI. Required Readings for ’86-7;

  Some Successful Women. (_Illustrated_)              _Sarah K. Bolton._
  Wonder-Wings, Mullingongs, Colossi, and                _C. F. Holder._
      Others. (_Illustrated_)
  A Young Prince of Commerce. (_Illustrated_)       _Selden R. Hopkins._
  Ways to Do Things. (_Illustrated_)                  _Various Authors._
  Search-Questions in Greek History.                  _Oscar Fay Adams._

    Also the following books: “A Family Flight Through
    Norway and Switzerland,” by Edward Everett Hale and
    Susan Hale; “Hamlet” edited by Homer B. Sprague,
    President of Mills College; “Up Hill and Down Dale,” by
    Laura D. Nichols.

[Footnote A: Vol. III. is out of print.]

    =D LOTHROP COMPANY. Publishers, Boston, U. S. A.=


=Wide Awake, 1887.=

Volumes W and X. 4to, boards, 1.75 a volume—cloth, 2.25.

    “The files we have had bound are so popular as to be in
    danger of being literally read to pieces; and, knowing
    well that the new ones will meet the same treatment,
    we earnestly hope that the time will never come when
    it will be impossible to replace them; for they are a
    source of too much enjoyment and benefit to our young
    people to be allowed to get out of print—that would be
    a great misfortune.”

    _—Extract from letter of the Librarian of the Morse
    Institute, Natick, Mass., ordering the first nineteen
    volumes of_ WIDE AWAKE.

    One in a dozen families—no, not so many—one in a
    hundred eats good food. About as many read good books.
    And yet the proportion of good eating and reading is
    quite as high in this as in any country. The fact is
    some good food is a little dry. Good reading is never
    peppery. We are losing our capacity for enjoyment of
    both when we crave unwholesome stimulants.

    _Wide Awake_ is one of those rare collections varied
    and bright enough to engage the common reader and good
    enough to lead the capable reader to higher pleasures
    and benefits.

    Volume W contains: a yachting story, by Charles R.
    Talbot; Peggy and her Family, by Margaret Sidney;
    Pamela’s Fortune, by Lucy C. Lillie; Pocahontas and
    Rolfe, by Mrs. Blathwayt; Turkish Childhood, by Hon. S.
    S. Cox; Some Nantucket Children, by Mrs. Macy; stories
    of early American warfare; no end of short stories and
    sketches, poems, engravings, etc.

    Volume X is equally full and fine. The two volumes make
    the year. The covers are bright and beautiful.


=Boys and Girls’ Annual 1888.=

4to, cloth, 3.00.

    A big book of short stories and long; good many of
    both; and bright ones all of them, long or short. The
    secret is: they are out of _Wide Awake_. Pictures
    besides.


=Dame Heraldry.=

By F. S. W. Illustrated by nine full-page colored illustrations and
numerous engravings. 8vo, cloth, 2.50.

    The writer, his children having an interest in
    heraldry, set himself at the task of telling them what
    he knew of it. Hence the book; which treats the whole
    subject formally, yet with a pleasant vacation air.


=Family Flight Series.=

By E. E. HALE and SUSAN HALE, 5 vols., 8vo, boards, each, 1.75; cloth,
2.25.

    Book journeys through the several countries with eyes
    and ears wide open, old eyes and young eyes and ears.
    The books are full of pictures, and fuller of knowledge
    not only of what is going on but what has gone on ever
    since book-making began, and fuller yet of brightness
    and interest. You see the old as old; but you see it;
    you see where it was and the marks it left. You see the
    new with eyes made sharper by knowledge of what has
    gone in the world.

    In other words these books amount to something like
    going through these places with a traveling companion
    who knows all about them and their histories.

    They are written and pictured for boys and girls; but
    there is nothing to hinder the old folks going along.
    Will you go?

    FAMILY FLIGHT AROUND HOME.
    FAMILY FLIGHT OVER EGYPT AND SYRIA.
    FAMILY FLIGHT THROUGH FRANCE, GERMANY, NORWAY AND SWITZERLAND.
    FAMILY FLIGHT THROUGH MEXICO.
    FAMILY FLIGHT THROUGH SPAIN.

    One of the most effective means of exciting and
    satisfying zeal for knowledge of the world we have in
    books.


=Young Folks’ Cyclopædia of Stories.=

4to, cloth, 3.00.

    Containing in one large book the following stories,
    with many illustrations:

    FIVE LITTLE PEPPERS AND HOW THEY GREW. By Margaret Sidney.
    TWO YOUNG HOMESTEADERS. By Theodora R. Jenness.
    ROYAL LOWRIE’S LAST YEAR AT ST. OLAVES. By Charles R. Talbot.
    THE DOGBERRY BUNCH. By Mary Hartwell Catherwood.
    YOUNG RICK. By Julia R. Eastman.
    NAN, THE NEW-FASHIONED GIRL. By S. C. Hallowell.
    POLLY, GOOD-FOR-NOTHING POLLY. By Ella Farman.
    THE COOKING-CLUB OF TU-WHIT HOLLOW. By Ella Farman.


=Margaret Sidney’s Illustrated Quartos.=


=Golden West as Seen by the Ridgway Club.=

4to, cloth, 2.25; boards, 1.75.

A pictorial and talkative run from Boston to Monterey for health and
pleasure and information. And what the jolly party sees from the car
windows is only part of the treat.


=What the Seven Did, or the Doings of the Wordsworth Club.=

4to, cloth, 2.25; boards, 1.75.

The seven are little girl neighbors, the Wordsworth Club, which met
once a week at their several homes to have a good time. Those good
times are the book. The best of them had to do with the fathers and
mothers and Widow Barker’s cow.


=Who Told it to Me.=

Square 8vo, boards, 1.25; cloth 1.75.

Neighbor boys and girls growing up together, having their ins and outs,
and ups and downs; and the old folks had their share in the young
folks’ doings, as they ought. It was a jolly Pengannop. They did grow
good men and women those days in New England.


=Polly and the Children.=

4to, boards, 50 cents.

The parrot has surprising adventures at the children’s party and wears
a medal after the fire.


=FUN AND FANCY LIBRARY.=

3 VOLUMES, 12MO, CLOTH, EACH, 1.00.


=Bubbling Teapot.=

A Wonder Story by LIZZIE W. CHAMPNEY.

    A discontented little girl is the Bubbling Teapot of
    a sort of Japanese Arabian Night. She tries a great
    many kinds of life and concludes that the nicest life,
    after all, is that of a little American girl. It is a
    dream-story.


=In No-Man’s Land.=

A Wonder Story by E. S. BROOKS.

    A Dream-story as droll as Alice in Wonderland. Not like
    Alice; and yet can there be two sorts of dream-nonsense
    so witty and wild, so mixed up and yet not muddy a
    whit? The plays on nursery rhymes are enough to make
    the fortune of almost a dull book. And “there isn’t a
    dull line in it.”


=Dilly and the Captain.=

BY MARGARET SIDNEY.

    A bicycle-tricycle story of pioneers and explorers in
    search of the place where children should be seen and
    heard too. A very jolly story.


=Nelly Marlow in Washington.=

By LAURA D. NICHOLS. Square, 8vo, boards, $1.25; cloth, $1.50.

    Nelly sees the Capitol and the Capital. There are
    wonderful things to be seen there; too many to think of
    out of the book. It’s a story besides. Nelly brings up
    in the Adirondacks before her play-time is over.


=Overhead=: or what Harry and Nelly discovered in the heavens. By ANNIE
MOORE and LAURA D. NICHOLS. Introduction by Leonard Waldo, of Harvard
College Observatory. Square 8vo, boards, 1.25; cloth, 1.50.

    A trip to the moon, Saturn, the sun, and various other
    stations, in great big letters and pictures, with a
    little bit of easy astronomy sprinkled in.


=Underfoot=, or what Harry and Nelly learned of the earth’s treasures.
By LAURA D. NICHOLS. Square 8vo, boards, 1.25; cloth, 1.50.

    Peeps at the world we live on and into it here and
    there where the holes are.


=Up Hill and Down Dale.= By LAURA D. NICHOLS. Square 8vo, boards, 1.25;
cloth, 1.50.

    Nelly leaves Harry at business and goes to the country.
    What she sees there is in the book, and a great many
    things besides.


=Cats’ Arabian Nights.= By ABBY MORTON DIAZ. 8vo, boards, 1.25.

    The wonderful cat story of cat stories told by
    Pussyanita that saved the lives of all the cats,
    the funniest, wittiest story that ever was [so says
    Pussyanita]; and that is why it is wonderful. King
    Grimalkum must have been a credulous fellow; but nobody
    blames him for losing his wits to such a teller of cat
    stories.


=Fireside Chronicles, or the Family Story-Teller.= By ABBY MORTON DIAZ.

    Fifteen different chronicles, every one of them funnier
    than the last one; and five times as many pictures of
    what they’re about. A great deal of wisdom in with the
    fun.


=Wonder Stories.=

3 volumes, 12mo, cloth, each 1.50.


    =Wonder Stories of History.= Historical incidents told
    in short stories by several writers.


    =Wonder Stories of Science.= Really how twenty-one
    different things are made in the world. By several
    writers.


    =Wonder Stories of Travel.= Tales in which
    peculiarities of people and things abroad are brought
    out By several writers.


_Bound Volumes of Two Illustrated Magazines._


=Our Little Men and Women for 1887.=

4to, 74 full-page illustrations, cloth, 2.00; boards, 1.50.

Nearly 300 pages of pictures and stories, sketches, lessons, and
entertainments easy to read and understand, for children six to eight
years old. As bright as a book can be, and as full of help towards
wholesome progress in learning, growth of mind and the formation of
good habits and taste in reading.

The cover is daintily beautiful.


=The Pansy for 1887.=

4to, cloth, 1.75; boards, 1.25.

More than 400 pages of reading and pictures for children of eight to
fifteen years in various lines of interest. There are sketches of home
and foreign life, religious instruction, biography, history, fiction,
anecdote, letter-writing. The editor is the author of the Pansy books,
which means that the drift of _The Pansy_ is all one way.

The cover is almost made of pansies, purple and gold, with a pair of
happy children on a grassy bank, and a flock of butterflies.


=Real Fairy Folks.=

By LUCY RIDER MEYER, A.M. Illustrated, 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

    A play-excursion into chemistry, none the less serious
    because it is play, and none the less play because it
    is serious.

    We quote from the author’s word to parents: “This book
    is true to chemical fact and principle. It is an effort
    to make them love the beautiful science of chemistry
    and to lift their thoughts to the One who holds in His
    hand the atoms as securely as He holds the worlds.”

    Nevertheless it is a book of diversion, a story-book, a
    fairy story-book. A queer combination, but we believe
    successful. We much mistake if it is not splendidly
    successful.


=Story Book of Science.=

By LYDIA HOYT FARMER. Illustrated, 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

    This also is fact and fiction in science; stories
    made upon what goes on in the world, the scientific
    and practical world. Glass-making is in it; and silk;
    a great many insects; snow; wind; the seven modern
    wonders; birds; animals; tea, coffee, pepper, potatoes;
    what not? There are subjects enough, and learning
    enough; and there is fun in finding out how the world
    is put together.


=Look-About Club.=

By MARY E. BAMFORD. 4to, cloth, 1.50.

The Club is a family given to study of animals. Under the guise of play
the family learns about spiders and butterflies, chickens and rabbits,
fishes and frogs, the folks in the brook, the folks on the ground and
the folks in the air, which includes grasshoppers and beetles.

There is a great deal to know about our neighbors, worth knowing, too;
and the surest way to begin learning is to like it. That is why such
books as this are made, to make young people like the beginnings of
learning.


=Little Polly Blatchley.=

By FRANCES C. SPARHAWK. 4to, boards, 1.00.

    Delightful stories out of little Polly’s life. Polly
    is what elderly people call an “old” little girl. She
    is continually thinking of things that little people
    are apt to skip; and she keeps her thoughts to herself
    so wisely and lets them out so in the nick of time,
    she delights her good papa and mamma in the book and
    the little girl who reads it. It is a rare book for
    pleasure and wholesome suggestion.


=Playfellows and Their Pets.=

4to, boards, 1.00.

    Short stories about children, animals and birds, with
    a great many pictures. Not a page but is full of
    entertainment, instruction and means of growth for
    pretty good readers of six or eight or ten—Do little
    folks go by ages nowadays?


=After Play Stories for the Little Ones.=

4to, boards, 1.00.

    Beginning stories for little readers, or to be read to
    people too little to read for themselves.

    There is one about the Puzzled Baby, which begins in
    this way:

    “I am a baby. But I don’t want you to think I am one of
    these little bits of things who know nothing at all. I
    am an _old_ baby. I am almost ten months old!

    “I have a cousin who is only nine weeks old. The little
    goose don’t know how to get his toes in his mouth!”


=Some Things Abroad.=

By ALEXANDER MCKENZIE, D. D. 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

    A chatty going over the events of day after day of a
    journey through northern and southern Europe into Asia,
    the Holy Land especially. Dr. McKenzie’s name is enough
    in New England. Outside also.


=Russian Novelists.=

From the French of M. de Vogüé by JANE LORING EDMANDS. 12mo, cloth,
$1.50.

    An exposition of life and feeling in Russia through an
    examination of the most characteristic Russian writers;
    also a critical and general estimate of current Russian
    literature.


=Life Among the Germans.=

By EMMA LOUISE PARRY. 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

    A very near and intimate view of German home and
    social life, with a sympathetic account of the Luther
    Centennial. A book of rare fullness and delicacy.


=Common Sense Science.=

By GRANT ALLEN. 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

    Practical applications of many results of recent
    advances in science. Not a schoolbook; a means of
    intelligence suited to busy people.


=Royal Girls and Royal Courts.=

By M. E. W. SHERWOOD. 12mo, cloth, $1.25.

    A book of twelve chapters on nearly as many European
    courts with special regard to the local etiquette, by a
    peculiarly competent person.


=Souvenirs of My Time.=

BY JESSIE BENTON FRÉMONT. 12mo, cloth, $1.50.

    Reminiscences of a political-social career of rare
    distinction in a republican country told with a
    freshness and readiness rare in any country.


=American Authors for Young Folks.=

By AMANDA B. HARRIS. 12mo, cloth, $1.00.

    Not exhaustive essays upon but rather clues to our
    writers who need not be named for their eminence and
    whom not to know is not to know the American part in
    English letters.


=Dorothy Thorn of Thornton.=

By JULIAN WARTH. 12 mo., $1.25.

    The chemist’s dainty daughter draws the old dreamer
    out of his laboratory and the young dreamer out of his
    yacht, the one as neatly as the other.

    There is a factory in the story, with a hard-headed
    business man for a manager and a gentleman for owner.
    There is a community of working men; their lives and
    feelings and interests, also their schemes and plans.
    A minister; two of them, one a woman; one to society,
    one to the working people. A strike, a mob, a murder, a
    settlement.

    The manufacturer wins, and so do the workmen. So does
    the chemist’s daughter, as indeed she deserves.


=Gladys.=

A Romance. By MARY G. DARLING. 12mo, $1.25.

    A story of love—the ever-new old story. The bright and
    beautiful daughter of a fond old man who has nothing to
    do but delight in her pleasure, and watch her numerous
    lovers, spends her first summer after school-days at
    Bar Harbor. Too good and true to be spoiled by pursuit,
    she, nevertheless, but slowly learns to distinguish
    conjugal love. Her fortune takes her more or less
    blindly through the school of experience—a school that
    tempers not its exactions.

    There are interesting stories within the larger story,
    and interesting fragments of other lives than the two.
    We part from several of the personages unwillingly.


=After School Days.=

By CHRISTINA GOODWIN. 12mo, cloth, 1.00.

A tale: quite a new sort of history. School-days over, four girl
friends return to their homes and life begins. As often happens,
life is not as they picture it. What it is for the four and how they
severally meet it—that is the story.


=For a Girl’s Room.=

12mo, cloth, 1.00.

A practical help for a girl to surround herself with pleasant things
with little expense. The book is mainly filled with ways to exercise
taste on waste or picked-up things for use with an eye to decoration
as well. A friendly sort of a book to fill odd minutes whether at
home or out, for herself or another. By no means on “fancy work”—not
all work—Chapter XXI is how to tame birds, and XXV is what to do in
emergencies.


=GO TELL MOTHER.=

=PATTERN FREE.=

[Illustration: BACK]

By Special Arrangement with DEMOREST’S MONTHLY, the greatest of all
Family Magazines, we are enabled to make every one of our lady readers
a handsome present.

Cut out this slip and inclose it before Dec. 1st, (with a two-cent
stamp for return postage) to W. Jennings Demorest, 15 East 14th Street,
New York, and you will receive by return mail a full-size pattern,
illustrated and fully described, of this JACKET (worth 25c).

Cross out with pencil the size desired. Bust, 34, 36, 38, 40.

While Demorest’s is not a Fashion Magazine, many suppose it to be,
because its Fashion Department, like all its other Departments, is so
perfect. You really get a dozen Magazines in one, for $2.00 per year.

Each number of Demorest’s Monthly contains an order, entitling the
holder to the selection of any pattern illustrated in any number, and
in any of the sizes manufactured, making patterns during the year of
the value of over three dollars.

You thus get free all the patterns you wish to use during the year
for yourself and children. Send for the pattern offered above, as its
descriptive envelope will give you full particulars and show you why it
will pay you to subscribe for Demorest’s Monthly.


[Illustration]

    =R. M. LAMBIE=,

    ALL KINDS OF
    =BOOK
    HOLDERS=

    THE MOST PERFECT
    Dictionary Holder.

    Send for Illustrated
    Catalogue.

    =39 E. 19th St., N.Y.=

[Illustration]


The Toy the child likes best!

[Illustration]

This is the title of a descriptive Price-list, richly illustrated in
colour-print, of the ANCHOR STONE BUILDING BOX, which should be found
in every family and may be obtained from all Toy dealers. Stationers
and Educational Depôts. The Price-list will be forwarded gratis on
application to

    =_F. AD. RICHTER & Co._=
    =NEW YORK, 310, BROADWAY or LONDON E.C.,
    1, RAILWAY PLACE, FENCHURCH STREET.=


ROYAL GIRLS. By M. E. W. Sherwood. Ill. Boston: D. Lothrop Company.
Price $1.25. One thing readers will learn from this volume by Mrs.
Sherwood, and that is that girls who happen to be born princesses
are very much like those who are born in ordinary households, and
that human nature is pretty much the same in a palace as it is in
an American farmhouse. But they will learn, too, that in most royal
families the daughters are subjected to a course of discipline and
training more severe and exacting than ever fell to the lot of an
American girl. They are obliged to study early and late; they must
have not only a thorough knowledge of the languages, of music and
of court etiquette, but also of the politics of their own and other
governments; they must know something of statecraft and of diplomacy,
for no princess knows what station she may be some time called on
to fill. No American girl need envy them, says Mrs. Sherwood. “They
are in chains, all of them. They must be careful what they say, do,
think even. With royal girls, what interrupted destinies, what cruel
disappointments, what unhappy marriages, what a contrast between the
desire and fulfilment do we constantly see.” There are certain things
in which Mrs. Sherwood thinks they might serve as models to American
girls, with whom she frequently compares them. The volume contains
sketches of the royal girls of Italy, of Spain, of Denmark, of Russia,
of England and of Germany, and two chapters are devoted to “Carmen
Sylva,” the queen of Roumania and the empress of Austria. The author
describes very entertainingly the home life of some of these girls, and
the rules of etiquette to which they are obliged to conform. The volume
is well illustrated with portraits.


WHAT PEOPLE LIVE BY. By Count Leo Tolstoi. Translated by Mrs. Aline
Delano. Boston: D. Lothrop Company. Price $1.00. A remarkable little
story by the distinguished Russian writer, Count Tolstoi, has been
translated by Mrs. Aline Delano, and cannot fail to impress the reader
more strongly than ever with the wonderful power of the author in
dealing with religious or psychological subjects. It was written for a
distinct purpose; to show, in the words of the title, “What People Live
By.” Nothing can be more severely simple than the story, which is thus
summed up. “I have learned,” says Tolstoi, “that man lives not by care
for himself, but by love.... I know that God has given life to men, and
wishes them to live. Now I know another truth: the truth that God does
not wish man to live apart; therefore He has not revealed to them what
each needs for himself. He wishes them to live together, and therefore
reveals to each the others’ wants.” The translation seems to be very
close to the original.


=THE BEST TOY EVER INVENTED.=

=FUN! FUN!! FUN!!!=

=THE WORLD’S EDUCATOR; OR, EDUCATIONAL TOY AND GAME.=

WIT. WISDOM. WONDER.

Children and grown people enjoy it together.

[Illustration:

    THE
    WORLD’S EDUCATOR

    IT ASKS AND ANSWERS THE
    MOST DIFFICULT QUESTIONS

    EQUALLY INTERESTING FOR
    THE OLD AND YOUNG
    JOY AND FUN
    FOR EVERY ONE

    IT TEACHES
    ARITHMETIC, GEOGRAPHY KINDERGARTEN
    IMPORTANT EVENTS
    OF THE 19TH CENTURY
    CAN BE USED AND ENJOYED BY THE YOUNGEST
    CHILD & OLDEST PERSON

(PATENTED IN UNITED STATES AND GREAT BRITAIN.)]

The Educator is full of Fun, Instruction and Amusement! $100 worth of
books will not give the same amount of Amusement and Instruction. You
will laugh whether you want to or not. It asks all sorts of funny and
important questions and answers every one correctly. Can be enjoyed by
the whole family!

=THE BEST TOY EVER INVENTED!=

Price, with 10 Cards, only $1.00.

Extra Cards 5c. each, or 50 cents per dozen. For sale by every
first-class Toy, Stationery, and Fancy Goods dealer in United States,
Canada and Europe; or will be sent by mail or express, prepaid, by the
M’f’rs on receipt of =$1.25=.

HOW TO GET ONE FREE OF CHARGE!

Any person forming a club of six, and sending price of six, $6.00, and
Postage or Express, $1.50 ($7.50) will receive ONE EDUCATOR and CARDS
Free of Charge. Good Agents wanted. Send stamp for circulars. Mention
this magazine.

    W. S. REED TOY CO.,      Leominster, Mass.


[Illustration]

    =TENNIS.=      =BOATING.=      =RIDING.=
    =YOUNG LADIES SHOULD WEAR=
    =GOOD SENSE CORSET=
               =WAISTS=
    Permit Full Expansion of Lungs.
                         Perfect Freedom of Motion.
    SOLD BY ALL LEADING STORES. Send for Circular.
    FERRIS BROS. Manufacturers,
                  New York.


SHORT HINTS

——ON——

SOCIAL ETIQUETTE.

_Compiled from the latest and best works on the subject by “Aunt
Matilda.”_

=PRICE, 40 cents.=

THIS book should be in every family desirous of knowing “the proper
thing to do.” We all desire to behave properly and to know what is the
best school of manners. What shall we teach our children, that they may
go out into the world well-bred men and women?

“SHORT HINTS” contains the answer, and will be mailed to any address,
postage prepaid on receipt of price.

SPECIAL.

Until further notice we will mail each of our friends a copy of the
above valuable book gratis and free of postage, if they will mail us 15
wrappers of Dobbins’ Electric Soap.

By folding up the wrappers as you would a newspaper, the postage will
only be 2 cts.

Always put your full name and address on the outside of the bundle, and
write the word “Etiquette” also, and then we will know who sends it.

    I. L. CRAGIN & Co.,
          PHILADELPHIA, PENN.


=BOOK OF BEAUTIFUL SAMPLE CARDS.=

44 tricks in Magic, 800 Autograph Album Verses, 34 Amusing Games, 43
ways to Make Money. All for a two-cent stamp.

    EAGLE CARD WORKS, CADIZ, OHIO.


=SHORT-HAND=, Type-Writing, Book-Keeping, Penmanship, &c., at Boston
Commercial College, 639 Washington St. Send for circular.


=400 RECITATIONS= AND READINGS. We will send to any address on receipt
of 30 cents, a handsome book, bound in paper cover, and containing 400
of the best recitations ever issued. Address

    J. S. OGILVIE & CO., 57 Rose Street, New York.


    =SHORTHAND= Writing _thoroughly taught_
              =by mail= or personally.
    =Situations procured= all pupils when competent.
     Send for circular. =W. G. CHAFFEE=, Oswego, N.Y.


=WEAVER ORGANS=

[Illustration]

Are the Finest in Tone, Style, Finish and general make up of any goods
made. Guaranteed for 6 years. Send for Catalogue, testimonials and
terms, free, to

    =Weaver Organ and Piano Co.,
                  Factory, York, Pa.=


=GAME OF CHECKERS=, Game of Nine Penny Morris Game of Fox and Geese,
The Star Puzzle, The Great Triple Prize Puzzle, and Sample Book of Late
Style Visiting Cards. All for only a 2-cent stamp. CAPITAL CARD CO.,
Columbus, O.


=941 HIDDEN NAME CARDS=, scrap pictures, puzzles, games, tricks, money
making secrets, album verses, and the largest and finest sample book of
new style cards ever issued. All for a 2-cent stamp. Steam Card Works,
Station 15, O.


    DRESS        Illustrated Catalogue Free.             DRESS
           MRS. A. FLETCHER, 6 EAST 14TH ST., N. Y.


THE LEGEND OF CEREALINE.

    “On the border of the forest,
    Underneath the fragrant pine-trees,
    Sat the old men and the warriors
    Smoking in the pleasant shadow.

           *       *       *       *       *

    And whene’er some lucky maiden
    Found a red ear in the husking,
    Found a maize-ear red as blood is,
    ‘Nushka!’ cried they altogether,
    ‘Nushka! you shall have a sweetheart.’”

[Illustration]

    HEALTHY were those red-skin warriors,
    Old, but full of robust vigor;
    They were in the best of humor
    For they had enjoyed their dinner,
    Which had gratified the palate,
    Being chiefly Flakes of Ceres,
    Served up as an Indian pudding.
    Such a wholesome feast imparted
    Energy and cheerful spirits,
    Therefore did those ancient warriors
    Laugh and joke the lucky maiden.
    “Nushka! you shall have a sweetheart,”
    Cried they; “you shall have a husband
    To provide for and to cook for;
    You shall make him cakes and muffins
    Of white Cerealine to please him,
    So that he will love you always.
    You shall send and get a Cook Book,
    From Columbus, Indiana,
    That will teach you all the uses
    Of the Flakes, in soups or puddings,
    Bread or cakes or pies, or what not.
    Nushka! you will both be happy!”

    ———————

    The series of twelve original pictures, illustrating
    “Hiawatha’s Fasting,” of which the above is a small
    example, will be mailed to any one who will mention
    where this advertisement was seen and enclose a
    two-cent stamp for postage to the Cerealine Mfg. Co.,
    Columbus, Indiana.

    “Cerealine Flakes” for sale by all grocers at twenty cents a package.



[Illustration]

LACES, fine embroideries, and other articles too delicate to bear
rubbing, may be cleaned satisfactorily and without injury, if you will
pare into fine shavings one-fourth of a cake of Ivory Soap, which
dissolve in a quart of hot water; fill a glass fruit jar half full of
the solution and add the article to be cleaned, then shake well. Rinse
in the same manner in clear, luke-warm water.

A WORD OF WARNING.

    There are many white soaps, each represented to be
    “just as good as the ‘Ivory’;” they ARE NOT, but like
    all counterfeits, lack the peculiar and remarkable
    qualities of the genuine. Ask for “Ivory” Soap and
    insist upon getting it.

    Copyright, 1886, by Procter & Gamble.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber’s Notes:

Obvious punctuation errors repaired. Sometimes the font size changed in
the lists of books in section III. Wherever possible, uniformity was
attempted in the HTML version.

Section I:

Page 4, “unforgetable” changed to “unforgettable” (be pithy,
unforgettable)

Page 8, “sorroundings” changed to “surroundings” (on accidental
surroundings)

Page 12, “Shh” changed to “She” (She dared not go)

Page 19, “chamelons” changed to “chameleons” (lizards and chameleons)

Section II:

Page 10, “becouse” changed to “because” (pouting all day because)

Page 17, repeated word "the" removed from text (Up to the spider)

Page 22, “Jennnie’s” changed to “Jennie’s” (and Jennie’s voice was)

Section III:

Page 30, “unsplitable” changed to “unsplittable” (but strong,
unsplittable)

Page 33, “pepole” changed to “people” (our young people will)

Page 33, “Chatauqua” changed to “Chautauqua” (called the CHAUTAUQUA
YOUNG FOLKS’ JOURNAL)

Page 34, the anchor for the footnote: “Vol. III is out of print” was
added to the text at what the transcriber hopes was a logical place.

Page 37, “Begginning” changed to “Beginning” (Beginning stories for
little)

Page 39, “psychologcal” changed to “psychological” (religious or
psychological)





End of Project Gutenberg's The Pansy Magazine, November 1887, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PANSY MAGAZINE, NOVEMBER 1887 ***

***** This file should be named 52909-0.txt or 52909-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/2/9/0/52909/

Produced by Emmy, Juliet Sutherland and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

